https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wuliwya

Wuliwyax (kastilla aru: Bolivia) Awya Yalan mä jach'a suyupawa. Kawkinkkitix
Bolivia Markax ukawjax nayra pachanakax Qullasuyu sutimp uñt'atataynawa. Aka
Qullasuyust pusi suyunkiritaynaw Tawantinsuyu taypinxa. Aka Tawantinsuyunst Inka
jila kullakanakaw jakasipxiritayna. Taqi jupanakast wali suman jakañrakw taqi
jach'a jisk'a suyunakarux apawayapxiritayna. Uka laq'a achachilanakax taqi
kunans wali amuyumpipuniw sartapxiritayna. Ukhamatw arst'asipxiritayna "Qhip
nayr uñtasapuniw sarnaqaña" sasina. Ukjamaraki taqi yänakatix utjkäna, taqi
uywanakatix utjkäna, jupanakampix wali askinxampunwa qamasipxiritayna. Ukjamatwa
uraqixa Pachamamamatayna.

Khaya 1492 maranwa Españul q'ara jaqinakaxa aka Awyalala tuqirux purinipxatayna.
Jupanakasti machaq uraq jiqxattanxa sasaw walpun kusisipxatayna ukjamaraki
musparapxatayna. Jupanakaxa aliq umir, lunthat jan wali jaqinakkamakiw
jutapxatayna. Jupanakasti khä Reyna Isabel ukan khitanakapapxarakitaynawa.
Jupanakasti wali jan amuyun jaqinakapxataynawa, khitirus jan wal uñjiri, quri
munir lunthat jaqinaka ukjamaw jupanakax aka Awyayala tuqin jakañ
qalltapxatayna. Ukatsi khaya 1532 maranrakwa khaya Kajamarka-Pirwa (Piruw)
tuqirux purntapxatayna. Ukansti taqi kasta markachirinakatix utjkäna ukanakar
jiwayañ qalltapxatayna, ukjamatwa Atawallpa jilarusa jiwayapoxatayna, taqi
qurinakapsa qatusisa. Ukjamatrakwa Machu Pikchu jach'a marksa qur thaqkawirux
t'unjapxarakitayna.

Bolivia jan ukasti Wuliwya sutimpix aka 1825 maran ukjam
suticht'asiwayapxarakitayna. Ukapachanxa walja españul criollo sutin jaqinakaw
wali mirantxapxatayna. Ukatsti jupanakatakix janiw suma qamawi jiqxatapkanati,
ukatwi yaqhachsiña amtapxatayna. Ukhamatwa jichhurunakkamax Bolivia sutimpi
uñt'atatanxa, uka arux Simon Bolivar ukatpï jutixa. Jupasti qhispiyiri ukjam
uñt'atarakiwa jupanakanxa. Ukjamipansa janiw Aymara, Qhichwa juk'amp
markanakatakix qhispiyawix utjkataynakati. Jichhurunakkamasa Aymaranakaxa
jisk'achatasipkakiwa, ukjamipansa wali amuyunakrakwa wauna jil kullakanakax
p'arxtayasipkaraki.



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hunkariya

Hunkariya, Magyarsuyu icha Mayarsuyu hunkariya arupi: Magyarország Iwrupapi
jach'a marka. Nayriri Budapest markam.

Béla Bartók – János Bihari – Ernő Dohnányi – Béni Egressy - Ferenc Erkel –
Zoltán Kocsis – Zoltán Kodály – Franz (Ferenc) Liszt -

Tivadar Csontváry Kosztka – Árpád Feszty – Mihály Munkácsy – Pál Szinyei Merse –
Victor Vasarely

Georg von Békésy – János Bolyai – Károly Bund – George de Hevesy – Dennis Gabor
– John von Neumann – George Andrew Olah – Ernő Rubik – Hans Selye – Ignaz
Semmelweis – Charles Simonyi – Albert Szent-Györgyi – Leó Szilárd – Edward
Teller – Eugene Wigner

Endre Ady – János Arany József Eötvös – György Faludy – Béla Hamvas – Mór Jókai
– Ferenc Kazinczy - Imre Kertész – János Kodolányi - Ferenc Kölcsey - Imre
Madách – Sándor Márai – Ferenc Molnár - Sándor Petőfi – Miklós Radnóti – Magda
Szabó – Antal Szerb Mihály Vörösmarty

Gyula Andrássy – Ferenc Deák – Miklós Horthy – Lajos Kossuth – Imre Nagy -
István Széchenyi – Miklós Wesselényi

Krisztina Egerszegi - Zoltán Gera – Ágnes Keleti – Péter Lékó – László Papp –
Judit Polgár – Zsuzsa Polgár – Ferenc Puskás - Csaba Mérõ



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipidiya%3aJayma_punku

The call for applications for Wikimania Scholarships to attend Wikimania 2010 in
Gdansk, Poland (July 9-11) is now open. The Wikimedia Foundation offers
Scholarships to pay for selected individuals' round trip travel, accommodations,
and registration at the conference. To apply, visit the Wikimania 2010
scholarships information page, click the secure link available there, and fill
out the form to apply. For additional information, please visit the Scholarships
information and FAQ pages:

Hallo, my name is Anastasiya Lvova, I'm "duty" in Connectivity project. The
essence of the "Connectivity" project is to study and enhance the coherence of
Wikipedia, or, in other words, to improve hypertext navigation between articles.
The project deals with deadends, isolated articles, non-categorized articles,
transitivity of the category tree, etc.

We want to work with your language version, but we need configured
MediaWiki:Disambiguationspage for it (with direct links to template namespace
pages, for example,
ru:MediaWiki:Disambiguationspage/de:MediaWiki:Disambiguationspage/fr:MediaWiki:D
isambiguationspage). Is it possible to set it up for our usage?

Gracias al trabajo de Diego Grez, ahora la Wikipedia en Aymara cuenta con un
nuevo logo acorde con los cambios que se vienen realizando en la Wikipedia en
general.

Se necesita que se ayude a traducir la interfaz del wiki, para eso, diríjanse a
translatewiki:, el wiki de las traducciones de MediaWiki y muchos otros
proyectos libres más, entonces siga a translatewiki:Project:Translator, y yo o
cualquier otro burócrata del wiki le otorgará derechos de traductor. Se
necesitan urgentemente los mensajes más usados de MediaWiki, para hacer las
visitas a Wikipidiya de los nativos, más amigable y acogedora. :) Gracias.
--Diego Grez 00:27 15 juy 2010 (UTC)

¡Ya tenemos nuestro propio canal IRC! Visiten http://webchat.freenode.net ,
ingresen su nick, y en channels usen #wikipedia-ay. Saludos! --Diego Grez 00:03
19 juy 2010 (UTC)

Estoy creando las páginas para los años que faltan, desde 1500 hasta 1970. Voy a
floodear los cambios recientes, pero no creo que afecte, ya que es un 'apoyo'
para la enciclopedia. Sólo faltará que les añadamos contenido después ;)
Saludos. --Diego Grez 00:33 19 juy 2010 (UTC)

HotCat (Wikipedia:HotCat) es una extensión JavaScript para añadir fácilmente
categorías a artículos y otras páginas del Wiki. Puedes activarlo añadiendo el
siguiente código en tu monobook.js y tu vector.js:

Versión estilizada para la Aymar Wikipidiya. Saludos. Diego Grez 18:54 25 hui
2010 (UTC)

I am requesting the change of my nickname at MetaWiki. I have four years on
Wikipedia (more than 3 years on the Aymar Wikipedia), this old nick Kanon6917 is
in disuse in other personal accounts since now my email is Kanon6996@... I am
trying to unify all my accounts and also on Wikipedia with this definite
nickname (I have just done so on the Spanish Wikipedia and on the English
Wikipedia). Thanks in advance. Kanon6917 07:15 29 hui 2010 (UTC)

Please put your translation on my Meta-Wiki talk page. Thanks in advance for
your help! Cbrown1023 tuqisiwi 16:40 25 tha 2010 (UTC)

The meta translators are already actively engaged in the annual drive to
distribute our messages and we encourage you to do the same, but we would like
to point everyone to the developments we've made in banner messages- from
creation to commentary to the ones that will go live for test and for the drive
itself in November. It's one of our goals to make sure that all volunteers know
that there is a place for them in the Fundraising drive. We've started the setup
on meta for both banner submission, statistical analysis, and grouping
volunteers together that would like to find specific focus and work in that
area.

Fundraising 2010 is preparing to start, and we want your project to be a part of
the global movement to support free knowledge. The Wikimedia Foundation is
engaging with local communities that build the projects to play an active part
in this year's fundraiser. This year we will be working to best serve all the
language communities by providing messages that are best suited for each
location.

To do this, we need your help. We are testing messages and we want to be sure
that our messages will work with your language. If it does not and your
community can come up with your own banner in the spirit of supporting free
knowledge, we invite you to submit your proposals and be active in this process.
Wikimedia is for you, join us in supporting free knowledge in your local
community! Keegan, WMF Fundraiser 2010 04:35 15 llmp 2010 (UTC)

The Fundraising Committee is issuing all interested community members a
challenge: we want you to beat Jimmy. The appeal from Jimmy Wales and the
corresponding banner have been tested head-to-head with other successful
banners, and the results are clear: it's our best performing message... by a
lot. This year we have a lofty fundraising goal; we need all of our banners to
bring in donations like the Jimmy Appeal, but no one wants to keep the Jimmy
banner up for two months. We want to run donor quotes, and other wonderful
ideas, but we have to have banners that work as well as or better than the Jimmy
appeal.

We've just released the highlights from a donor focus group, and the results of
our donor survey. With one month to the launch of the fundraiser, the messages
we test must be driven by data from our tests and surveys - we can no longer
rely on instinct alone.

We've redesigned our fundraising meta pages with the Jimmy challenge; check out
the survey results and propose/discuss banners that reflect these findings. Add
the banners you think will 'beat Jimmy' here to be tested Tuesday October 12
against Jimmy. Keegan, WMF Fundraiser 2010 02:17 8 tay 2010 (UTC)

Further details and educational materials will be available shortly. The
referendum is scheduled for 12-27 August, 2011, and will be conducted on servers
hosted by a neutral third party. Referendum details, officials, voting
requirements, and supporting materials will be posted at Meta:Image filter
referendum shortly.

Sorry for delivering you a message in English. Please help translate the pages
on the referendum on Meta and join the translators mailing list.

For the coordinating committee, Philippe (WMF) Cbrown1023 Risker Mardetanha
PeterSymonds Robert Harris

Wikipdiya:Jayma punku hace referencia al mate de coca? Las palabras por separado
según el diccionario que tengo de aymara punky como puerta y Jayma como lugar
comunal. Es correcto hablar Puerta comunal como un lugar donde uno se reune a
hablar? La imagen que muestra el mate de coca hace alusión a la taza de café que
se usa en la wikipedia en español donde es común reunirse para tomar un café.
Entiendo que esto no tiene las mismas connotaciones en aymara. No comprendo bien
cuál podría ser la palabra más adecuada y me encantaría escuchar más opiniones
de ustedes para poder sugerir un cambio. Alhen 22:20 11 llmp 2011 (UTC)

En esta página se encuentran los mensajes más comúnes de la Wikipedia en aymara.
Estuve revisando el historial de contribuciones y al parecer hay un tira y
afloja entre lo que le parece a un usuarios y lo que piensa otro que debería el
nombre. Como un ejemplo, pueden ver este enlace. Les pido por favor que usemos
la página de discusión para poder llegar a un acuerdo y que esto luego sea
trasladado a Translate.wiki donde luego serán trasladas a la interfaz. Mucho de
los mensajes de aymara está en español. Con un poco de tiempo todo la interfaz
estará en aymara. Alhen 22:26 11 llmp 2011 (UTC)

The Wikimedia Foundation has brought together a new team of developers who are
dedicated to language support. This team is to support all the languages and
consequently it is not realistic to expect that the team members can provide
proper support for your language. It is for this reason that we are looking for
volunteers who will make up a language support team.

As much of the activity will be concentrated on translatewiki.net, it will be a
plus when team members know how to localise at translatewiki.net. Thanks,
Gmeijssen 09:10 15 tay 2011 (UTC)

I apologize that you are receiving this message in English. Please help
translate it.

The Wikimedia Foundation is discussing changes to its Terms of Use. The
discussion can be found at Talk:Terms of use. Everyone is invited to join in.
Because the new version of Terms of use is not in final form, we are not able to
present official translations of it. Volunteers are welcome to translate it, as
German volunteers have done at m:Terms of use/de, but we ask that you note at
the top that the translation is unofficial and may become outdated as the
English version is changed. The translation request can be found at
m:Translation requests/WMF/Terms of Use 2 -- Maggie Dennis, Community Liaison
00:20 27 tay 2011 (UTC)

Hello Wikipedians, my name is Alex and I am working for the Wikimedia Foundation
during the 2011 Fundraiser. This year's fundraiser is intended to be a
collaborative and global effort; we recognize that messages which may perform
well in the United States don't necessarily translate well, or appeal to
international audiences.

I'm contacting you as I am currently looking for volunteers who are willing to
contribute to this project by helping translate and localize messages into your
local language, suggesting community appeals for us to use, and to provide us
with feedback on the Fundraising Meta Page. We've started the setup on meta for
both translation, statistical analysis, and local discussion and testing. We
actively encourage focusing discussion on meta so we can all work together. Use
the talk pages on meta, talk to your local communities, talk to others, talk to
us. Engagement is what we strive for, without each other we would never had made
Wikimedia succeed. The staff working on this fundraiser is comprised of
long-time Wikimedians with as much care and concern for the success of this
drive as the volunteers, and we want you to actively participate and have a
voice. Everyone is welcome to contact any of us on staff at any time with a
timely response to follow. I look forward to working with you during this year's
fundraiser.

If someone could translate this message I would really appreciate it so that
everyone is able to understand our goals and contribute to this year's campaign.
Azariv 19:39 31 tay 2011 (UTC)

I apologize that you are receiving this message in English. Please help
translate it.

The Wikimedia Foundation is seeking Community Fellows and project ideas for the
Community Fellowship Program. A Fellowship is a temporary position at the
Wikimedia Foundation in order to work on a specific project or set of projects.
Submissions for 2012 are encouraged to focus on the theme of improving editor
retention and increasing participation in Wikimedia projects. If interested,
please submit a project idea or apply to be a fellow by January 15, 2012. Please
visit https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Wikimedia_Fellowships for more
information.

--Siko Bouterse, Head of Community Fellowships, Wikimedia Foundation 12:46 21
dic 2011 (UTC)

Wikimedia Foundation is getting ready to push out 1.19 to all the WMF-hosted
wikis. As we finish wrapping up our code review, you can test the new version
right now on beta.wmflabs.org. For more information, please read the release
notes or the start of the final announcement.

Report any problems on the labs beta wiki and we'll work to address them before
they software is released to the production wikis.

Note that this cluster does have SUL but it is not integrated with SUL in
production, so you'll need to create another account. You should avoid using the
same password as you use here. — Global message delivery 23:56 14 ene 2012 (UTC)

(Apologies if this message isn't in your language.) The Wikimedia Foundation is
planning to upgrade MediaWiki (the software powering this wiki) to its latest
version this month. You can help to test it before it is enabled, to avoid
disruption and breakage. More information is available in the full announcement.
Thank you for your understanding.

Guillaume Paumier, via the Global message delivery system (wrong page? You can
fix it.). 13:26 12 feb 2012 (UTC)

(Apologies if this message isn't in your language. Please consider translating
it, as well as the full version of this announcement on Meta)

The Wikimedia Foundation is planning to do limited testing of IPv6 on June 2-3.
If there are not too many problems, we may fully enable IPv6 on World IPv6 day
(June 6), and keep it enabled.

Read the full version of this announcement on how to test the behavior of IPv6
with various tools and how to leave bug reports, and to find a fuller analysis
of the implications of the IPv6 migration.

--Erik Möller, VP of Engineering and Product Development, Wikimedia Foundation
00:42 2 juy 2012 (UTC)

Wikimedia Commons is happy to announce that the 2011 Picture of the Year
competition is now open. We are interested in your opinion as to which images
qualify to be the Picture of the Year 2011. Any user registered at Commons or a
Wikimedia wiki SUL-related to Commons with more than 75 edits before 1 April
2012 (UTC) is welcome to vote and, of course everyone is welcome to view!

About 600 of the best of Wikimedia Common's photos, animations, movies and
graphics were chosen –by the international Wikimedia Commons community– out of
12 million files during 2011 and are now called Featured Pictures.

From professional animal and plant shots to breathtaking panoramas and skylines,
restorations of historically relevant images, images portraying the world's best
architecture, maps, emblems, diagrams created with the most modern technology,
and impressive human portraits, Commons Features Pictures of all flavors.

(Apologies if this message isn't in your language. Please consider translating
it)

As many of you are aware, the Wikimedia Board of Trustees recently initiated
important changes in the way that money is being distributed within the
Wikimedia movement. As part of this, a new community-led "Funds Dissemination
Committee" (FDC) is currently being set up. Already in 2012-13, its
recommendations will guide the decisions about the distribution of over 10
million US dollars among the Foundation, chapters and other eligible entities.

Now, seven capable, knowledgeable and trustworthy community members are sought
to volunteer on the initial Funds Dissemination Committee. It is expected to
take up its work in September. In addition, a community member is sought to be
the Ombudsperson for the FDC process. If you are interested in joining the
committee, read the call for volunteers. Nominations are planned to close on
August 15.

--Anasuya Sengupta, Director of Global Learning and Grantmaking, Wikimedia
Foundation 19:51 19 hui 2012 (UTC)

You might also be interested in the idea to create a central Wikipedia Library
where approved editors would have access to all participating resource donors.
Add your feedback to the Community Fellowship proposal. Apologies for the
English message (translate here). Go sign up :) --Ocaasi (talk) 02:11 16 tha
2012 (UTC)

I apologize for addressing you in English. I would be grateful if you could
translate this message into your language.

The Wikimedia Foundation is conducting a request for comment on a proposed
program that could provide legal assistance to users in specific support roles
who are named in a legal complaint as a defendant because of those roles. We
wanted to be sure that your community was aware of this discussion and would
have a chance to participate in that discussion.

If this page is not the best place to publicize this request for comment, please
help spread the word to those who may be interested in participating. (If you'd
like to help translating the "request for comment", program policy or other
pages into your language and don't know how the translation system works, please
come by my user talk page at m:User talk:Mdennis (WMF). I'll be happy to assist
or to connect you with a volunteer who can assist.)

As some of you might already have heard Wikimedia Deutschland is working on a
new Wikimedia project. It is called m:Wikidata. The goal of Wikidata is to
become a central data repository for the Wikipedias, its sister projects and the
world. In the future it will hold data like the number of inhabitants of a
country, the date of birth of a famous person or the length of a river. These
can then be used in all Wikimedia projects and outside of them.

It'd be great if you could join us, test the demo version, provide feedback and
take part in the development of Wikidata. You can find all the relevant
information including an FAQ and sign-up links for our on-wiki newsletter on the
Wikidata page on Meta.

For further discussions please use this talk page (if you are uncomfortable
writing in English you can also write in your native language there) or point me
to the place where your discussion is happening so I can answer there.

The only pre-requisite is for the volunteer to actually live in the country and
to have access to at least one donation method that we offer for that country
(mainly credit/debit card, but also real-time banking like IDEAL, E-wallets,
etc...) so we can do a live test and see if the donation goes through. All
volunteers will be reimbursed of the donations that eventually succeed (and they
will be low amounts, like 1-2 dollars)

(Apologies if this message isn't in your language.) Next week, the Wikimedia
Foundation will transition its main technical operations to a new data center in
Ashburn, Virginia, USA. This is intended to improve the technical performance
and reliability of all Wikimedia sites, including this wiki. There will be some
times when the site will be in read-only mode, and there may be full outages;
the current target windows for the migration are January 22nd, 23rd and 24th,
2013, from 17:00 to 01:00 UTC (see other timezones on timeanddate.com). More
information is available in the full announcement.

If you would like to stay informed of future technical upgrades, consider
becoming a Tech ambassador and joining the ambassadors mailing list. You will be
able to help your fellow Wikimedians have a voice in technical discussions and
be notified of important decisions.

Guillaume Paumier, via the Global message delivery system (wrong page? You can
fix it.). 15:02 19 chi 2013 (UTC)

Wikimedia Commons celebrates our featured images of 2012 with this contest. Your
votes decide the Picture of the Year, so remember to vote in the first round by
January 30, 2013.

This message was delivered based on m:Distribution list/Global message delivery.
Translation fetched from: commons:Commons:Picture of the
Year/2012/Translations/Village Pump/en -- Rillke (discusión) 23:45 22 chi 2013
(UTC)

Wikidata has been in development for a few months now. It is now time for the
roll-out of the first part of it on your Wikipedia. Phase 1 is the support for
the management of language links. It is already being used on the Hungarian,
Hebrew, Italian and English Wikipedias. The next step is to enable the extension
on all other Wikipedias. We have currently planned this for March 6.

Editors on en:wp have created a great page with all the necessary information
for editors and there is also an FAQ for this deployment. Please ask questions
you might have on the FAQ’s discussion page.

To stay up-to-date on everything happening around Wikidata please subscribe to
the newsletter that is delivered weekly to subscribed user’s talk pages. You can
see previous editions here.

Sorry for writing in English. I hope someone can translate this locally. If you
understand German better than English you can have a look at the announcement on
de:Wikipedia:Kurier.

As I annonced 2 weeks ago, Wikidata phase 1 (language links) has been deployed
here today. Language links in the sidebar are coming from Wikidata in addition
to the ones in the wiki text. To edit them, scroll to the bottom of the language
links, and click edit. You no longer need to maintain these links by hand in the
wiki text of the article.

Where can I find more information and ask questions? Editors on en:wp have
created a great page with all the necessary information for editors and there is
also an FAQ for this deployment. It'd be great if you could bring this to this
wiki if that has not already happened. Please ask questions you might have on
the FAQ’s discussion page.

I want to be kept up to date about Wikidata To stay up-to-date on everything
happening around Wikidata please subscribe to the newsletter that is delivered
weekly to subscribed user’s talk pages.

(Please consider translating this message for the benefit of your fellow
Wikimedians)

Greetings. As you might have seen on the Wikimedia tech blog or the tech
ambassadors list, a new functionality called "Lua" is being enabled on all
Wikimedia sites today. Lua is a scripting language that enables you to write
faster and more powerful MediaWiki templates.

If you have questions about how to convert existing templates to Lua (or how to
create new ones), we'll be holding two support sessions on IRC next week: one on
Wednesday (for Oceania, Asia & America) and one on Friday (for Europe, Africa &
America); see m:IRC office hours for the details. If you can't make it, you can
also get help at mw:Talk:Lua scripting.

If you'd like to learn about this kind of events earlier in advance, consider
becoming a Tech ambassador by subscribing to the mailing list. You will also be
able to help your fellow Wikimedians have a voice in technical discussions and
be notified of important decisions.

Guillaume Paumier, via the Global message delivery system. 18:37 13 ach 2013
(UTC) (wrong page? You can fix it.)

Sorry for writing in English. I hope someone can translate this. If you
understand German better than English you can have a look at the announcement on
de:Wikipedia:Kurier.

A while ago the first phase of Wikidata was enabled on this Wikipedia. This
means you are getting the language links in each article from Wikidata. It is
soon time to enable the second phase of Wikidata (infoboxes) here. We have
already done this on the [first 11 Wikipedias] (it, he, hu, ru, tr, uk, uz, hr,
bs, sr, sh) and things are looking good. The next step is English Wikipedia.
This is planned for April 8. If everything works out fine we will deploy on all
remaining Wikipedias on April 10. I will update this part of the FAQ if there
are any issues forcing us to change this date. I will also sent another note to
this village pump once the deployment is finished.

What will happen once we have phase 2 enabled here? Once it is enabled in a few
days you will be able to make use of the structured data that is available on
Wikidata in your articles/infoboxes. It includes things like the symbol for a
chemical element, the ISBN for a book or the top level domain of a country.
(None of this will happen automatically. Someone will have to change the article
or infobox template for this to happen!)

We are working on expanding the parser function so you can for example use
{{#property:chief executive officer}} instead of {{#property:p169}}. The
complete plan for this is here.

Where can I find more information and ask questions? We have collected the main
questions in an FAQ for this deployment. Please ask questions you might have on
the FAQ’s discussion page.

I want to be kept up to date about Wikidata To stay up-to-date on everything
happening around Wikidata please subscribe to the newsletter that is delivered
weekly to subscribed user’s talk pages.

(Por favor, considere traducir este mensaje para beneficio de sus compañeros
wikimedistas. Por favor, considere también traducir esta propuesta.)

Read this message in English / Lleer esti mensaxe n'asturianu / বাংলায় এই
বার্তাটি পড়ুন / Llegiu aquest missatge en català / Læs denne besked på dansk /
Lies diese Nachricht auf Deutsch / Leś cal mesag' chè in Emiliàn / Leer este
mensaje en español / Lue tämä viesti suomeksi / Lire ce message en français /
Ler esta mensaxe en galego / हिन्दी / Pročitajte ovu poruku na hrvatskom / Baca
pesan ini dalam Bahasa Indonesia / Leggi questo messaggio in italiano / ಈ
ಸಂದೇಶವನ್ನು ಕನ್ನಡದಲ್ಲಿ ಓದಿ / Aqra dan il-messaġġ bil-Malti / norsk (bokmål) /
Lees dit bericht in het Nederlands / Przeczytaj tę wiadomość po polsku / Citiți
acest mesaj în română / Прочитать это сообщение на русском / Farriintaan ku aqri
Af-Soomaali / Pročitaj ovu poruku na srpskom (Прочитај ову поруку на српском) /
อ่านข้อความนี้ในภาษาไทย / Прочитати це повідомлення українською мовою / Đọc
thông báo bằng tiếng Việt / 使用中文阅读本信息。

Hay una nueva solicitud de comentarios en Meta-Wiki sobre la retirada de los
derechos administrativos a wikimedistas inactivos durante largo tiempo. Esta
propuesta se aplicaría a los proyectos que no tienen un proceso de revisión
propio.

Estamos listando los proyectos con procedimientos locales de remoción de
permisos a administradores inactivos en la página de discusión de la solicitud
de comentarios. No dude en agregar su(s) proyecto(s) a la lista si poseen una
política de inactividad de administradores.

Sorry for writing in English. I hope someone can translate this. If you
understand German better than English you can have a look at the announcement on
de:Wikipedia:Kurier.

A while ago the first phase of Wikidata was enabled on this Wikipedia. This
means you are getting the language links in each article from Wikidata. We have
now enabled the second phase of Wikidata (infoboxes) here. We have already done
this on the [first 11 Wikipedias] (it, he, hu, ru, tr, uk, uz, hr, bs, sr, sh) a
month ago and two days ago on the English Wikipedia. Today all the remaining
Wikipedias followed.

What does having phase 2 enabled here mean? You are now able to make use of the
structured data that is available on Wikidata in your articles/infoboxes. It
includes things like the symbol for a chemical element, the ISBN for a book or
the top level domain of a country. (None of this will happen automatically.
Someone will have to change the article or infobox template for this to happen!)
The current state is just the beginning though. It will be extended based on
feedback we get from you now.

We are working on expanding the parser function so you can for example use
{{#property:headquarter location}} instead of {{#property:p159}}. The complete
plan for this is here.

Where can I test this? You can test it on test2 if you don't want to do it in an
article here.

Where can I find more information and ask questions? We have collected the main
questions in an FAQ for this deployment. Please ask questions you might have on
the FAQ’s discussion page.

I want to be kept up to date about Wikidata To stay up-to-date on everything
happening around Wikidata please subscribe to the newsletter that is delivered
weekly to subscribed user’s talk pages.

We are excited about taking yet another step towards allowing all Wikipedias
share structured data and collect and curate it together. --Lydia Pintscher
19:01 24 yap 2013 (UTC)

Hi, apologies for posting this in English, but I wanted to alert your community
to a discussion on Meta about potential changes to the Wikimedia Trademark
Policy. Please translate this statement if you can. We hope that you will all
participate in the discussion; we also welcome translations of the legal team’s
statement into as many languages as possible and encourage you to voice your
thoughts there. Please see the Trademark practices discussion (on Meta-Wiki) for
more information. Thank you! --Mdennis (WMF) (talk)

The Wikipedia Library gets Wikipedia editors free access to reliable sources
that are behind paywalls. I want to alert you to our latest donation.

My apologies for the incorrect link: You can sign up for Cochrane Collaboration
accounts at the COCHRANE sign-up page. Cheers, Ocaasi 21:31 16 juy 2013 (UTC)

Hello, Sorry for English but It's very important for bot operators so I hope
someone translates this. Pywikipedia is migrating to Git so after July 26, SVN
checkouts won't be updated If you're using Pywikipedia you have to switch to
git, otherwise you will use out-dated framework and your bot might not work
properly. There is a manual for doing that and a blog post explaining about this
change in non-technical language. If you have question feel free to ask in
mw:Manual talk:Pywikipediabot/Gerrit, mailing list, or in the IRC channel. Best
Amir (via Global message delivery). 12:53 23 hui 2013 (UTC)

The Wikimedia Foundation will soon turn on VisualEditor for all users, all the
time on your Wikipedia. Right now your Wikipedia does not have any local
documents on VisualEditor, and we hope that your community can change that. To
find out about how you can help with translations visit the TranslationCentral
for VisualEditor and read the easy instructions on bringing information to your
Wikipedia. The User Guide and the FAQ are very important to have in your
language.

We want to find out as much as we can from you about VisualEditor and how it
helps your Wikipedia, and having local pages is a great way to start. We also
encourage you to leave feedback on Mediawiki where the community can offer
ideas, opinions, and point out bugs that may still exist in the software that
need to be reported to Bugzilla. If you are able to speak for the concerns of
others in English on MediaWiki or locally I encourage you to help your community
to be represented in this process.

If you can help translate the user interface for VisualEditor to your language,
you can help with that as well. Translatewiki has open tasks for translating
VisualEditor. A direct link to translate the user interface is here. You can see
how we are doing with those translations here. You need an account on
Translatewiki to translate. This account is free and easy to create.

If we can help your community in any way with this process, please let me know
and I will do my best to assist your Wikipedia with this |exciting development.
You can contact me on my meta talk page or by email. You can also contact
Patrick Earley for help with translations and documents on Mediawiki. We look
forward to working with you to bring the VisualEditor experience to your
Wikipedia! Keegan (WMF) (talk) 18:56 30 hui 2013 (UTC)

Greetings. Starting on August 21 (tomorrow), all users with an account will be
using HTTPS to access Wikimedia sites. HTTPS brings better security and improves
your privacy. More information is available at m:HTTPS.

If HTTPS causes problems for you, tell us on bugzilla, on IRC (in the
#wikimedia-operations channel) or on meta. If you can't use the other methods,
you can also send an e-mail to https@wikimedia.org.

Greg Grossmeier (via the Global message delivery system). 18:43 20 tha 2013
(UTC) (wrong page? You can fix it.)

Notifications will inform users about new activity that affects them on this
wiki in a unified way: for example, this new tool will let you know when you
have new talk page messages, edit reverts, mentions or links -- and is designed
to augment (rather than replace) the watchlist. The Wikimedia Foundation's
editor engagement team developed this tool (code-named 'Echo') earlier this
year, to help users contribute more productively to MediaWiki projects.

We're now getting ready to bring Notifications to almost all other Wikimedia
sites, and are aiming for a 22 October deployment, as outlined in this release
plan. It is important that notifications is translated for all of the languages
we serve.

Please let us know if you have any questions, suggestions or comments about this
new tool. For more information, visit this project hub and this help page.
Keegan (WMF) (talk) 18:08 4 tay 2013 (UTC)

Hola. Recientemente hemos adoptado una nueva política sobre el retiro de
permisos avanzados por consenso comunitario global (tu comunidad recibió una
notificación de la discusión). De acuerdo con la norma, los stewards están
evaluando la actividad de los administradores en las wikis más pequeñas. Por lo
que sabemos, su wiki no cuenta con un proceso formal para retirar permisos
avanzados a las cuentas inactivas. Por lo tanto, los stewards se encargarán de
esta tarea según la nueva evaluación de la actividad de los administradores en
esta wiki.

Sin embargo, si ustedes como una comunidad quieren crear su propio proceso de
revisión, desean tener otra decisión acerca de esas cuentas inactivas que poseen
permisos o ya poseen una política que hemos omitido, por favor notifícalo a los
stewards en Meta para que no procedamos con la revisión de permisos en su wiki.
Gracias --MF-Warburg (discusión) 19:08 3 awt 2013 (UTC)

I apologize for this message being only in English. Please translate it if
needed to help your community.

The Wikimedia Foundation's multimedia team seeks community guidance on a
proposal to support the MP4 video format. This digital video standard is used
widely around the world to record, edit and watch videos on mobile phones,
desktop computers and home video devices. It is also known as H.264/MPEG-4 or
AVC.

You are also welcome to join tomorrow's Office hours chat on IRC, this Thursday,
January 16, at 19:00 UTC, if you would like to discuss this project with our
team and other community members.

We look forward to a constructive discussion with you, so we can make a more
informed decision together on this important topic. Keegan (WMF) (talk) 06:47 16
chi 2014 (UTC)

Hello and sorry for writing in English. Can anyone help me translate a small
article (2 paragraphs) from English to your language? Please, fell free to
answer in my talk page in your wiki. Thanks! Xaris333 (discusión) 00:38 12 tha
2014 (UTC)

Greetings! The Individual Engagement Grants program is accepting proposals for
funding new experiments from September 1st to 30th. Your idea could improve
Wikimedia projects with a new tool or gadget, a better process to support
community-building on your wiki, research on an important issue, or something
else we haven't thought of yet. Whether you need $200 or $30,000 USD, Individual
Engagement Grants can cover your own project development time in addition to
hiring others to help you.

I invite to participate. And create table for wikipedia of
Hispanoamérica.--Kaiyr (talk) 12:13, 26 September 2014 (UTC)

El concurso se desarrollará durante todo el mes de octubre y todo lo que
necesitáis saber está aquí.

(Sorry for the English - please translate this message!) MediaWiki message
delivery (discusión) 20:02 4 ach 2015 (UTC)

Hello, I made a proposal on Meta to change the rules for the steward
confirmations. Currently consensus to remove is required for a steward to lose
his status, however I think it's fairer to the community if every steward needed
the consensus to keep. As this is an issue that affects all WMF wikis, I'm
sending this notification to let people know & be able to participate. Best
regards, --MF-W 16:12 10 yap 2015 (UTC)

This is a message from the 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee.
Translations are available.

I am pleased to announce that nominations are now being accepted for the 2015
Wikimedia Foundation Elections. This year the Board and the FDC Staff are
looking for a diverse set of candidates from regions and projects that are
traditionally under-represented on the board and in the movement as well as
candidates with experience in technology, product or finance. To this end they
have published letters describing what they think is needed and, recognizing
that those who know the community the best are the community themselves, the
election committee is accepting nominations for community members you think
should run and will reach out to those nominated to provide them with
information about the job and the election process.

Board of Trustees The Board of Trustees is the decision-making body that is
ultimately responsible for the long term sustainability of the Foundation, so we
value wide input into its selection. There are three positions being filled.
More information about this role can be found at the board elections page.

Funds Dissemination Committee (FDC) The Funds Dissemination Committee (FDC)
makes recommendations about how to allocate Wikimedia movement funds to eligible
entities. There are five positions being filled. More information about this
role can be found at the FDC elections page.

Funds Dissemination Committee (FDC) Ombud The FDC Ombud receives complaints and
feedback about the FDC process, investigates complaints at the request of the
Board of Trustees, and summarizes the investigations and feedback for the Board
of Trustees on an annual basis. One position is being filled. More information
about this role can be found at the FDC Ombudsperson elections page.

The candidacy submission phase lasts from 00:00 UTC April 20 to 23:59 UTC May 5
for the Board and from 00:00 UTCApril 20 to 23:59 UTC April 30 for the FDC and
FDC Ombudsperson. This year, we are accepting both self-nominations and
nominations of others. More information on this election and the nomination
process can be found on the 2015 Wikimedia elections page on Meta-Wiki.

On behalf of the Elections Committee, -Gregory Varnum (User:Varnent)
Coordinator, 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee

Posted by the MediaWiki message delivery on behalf of the 2015 Wikimedia
Foundation Elections Committee, 05:03, 21 April 2015 (UTC) • Translate • Get
help

This is a message from the 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee.
Translations are available.

Voting has begun for eligible voters in the 2015 elections for the Funds
Dissemination Committee (FDC) and FDC Ombudsperson. Questions and discussion
with the candidates for the Funds Dissemination Committee (FDC) and FDC
Ombudsperson will continue during the voting. Nominations for the Board of
Trustees will be accepted until 23:59 UTC May 5.

The Funds Dissemination Committee (FDC) makes recommendations about how to
allocate Wikimedia movement funds to eligible entities. There are five positions
on the committee being filled.

The FDC Ombudsperson receives complaints and feedback about the FDC process,
investigates complaints at the request of the Board of Trustees, and summarizes
the investigations and feedback for the Board of Trustees on an annual basis.
One position is being filled.

The voting phase lasts from 00:00 UTC May 3 to 23:59 UTC May 10. Click here to
vote. Questions and discussion with the candidates will continue during that
time. Click here to ask the FDC candidates a question. Click here to ask the FDC
Ombudsperson candidates a question. More information on the candidates and the
elections can be found on the 2015 FDC election page, the 2015 FDC Ombudsperson
election page, and the 2015 Board election page on Meta-Wiki.

On behalf of the Elections Committee, -Gregory Varnum (User:Varnent) Volunteer
Coordinator, 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee

Posted by the MediaWiki message delivery 03:45, 4 May 2015 (UTC) • Translate •
Get help

This is a message from the 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee.
Translations are available.

Voting has begun for eligible voters in the 2015 elections for the Wikimedia
Foundation Board of Trustees. Questions and discussion with the candidates for
the Board will continue during the voting.

The Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees is the ultimate governing authority
of the Wikimedia Foundation, a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization registered in
the United States. The Wikimedia Foundation manages many diverse projects such
as Wikipedia and Commons.

The voting phase lasts from 00:00 UTC May 17 to 23:59 UTC May 31. Click here to
vote. More information on the candidates and the elections can be found on the
2015 Board election page on Meta-Wiki.

On behalf of the Elections Committee, -Gregory Varnum (User:Varnent) Volunteer
Coordinator, 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee

Posted by the MediaWiki message delivery 17:20, 17 May 2015 (UTC) • Translate •
Get help

Hello, Content Translation has now been enabled as an opt-in beta feature on
this Wikipedia. To start translating, enable the beta feature and go to
Special:ContentTranslation or to your contributions page and create a new
translation by selecting the source language, the article name and target
language. If the article already exists then a warning will be displayed. After
you translate the article, you can publish it directly as a new page on the
Wikipedia. In case the article gets created by another user while you were
translating, you will see an option to save the newly published translation
under your user namespace. The number of published pages can be seen on the
Content Translation stats page.

Since, this is the first time we have installed the tool on this Wikipedia,
there are chances that there may be some problems or service disruptions which
we are not yet aware of. We will be monitoring the usage to check for any
failures or issues, but please do let us know on the Content Translation talk
page or through Phabricator if you spot any problems that prevent you from using
the tool. For more information, please read about how to use the tool. You can
also view a short screencast on how to use Content Translation. My apologies for
writing this announcement only in English. Please feel free to translate this
message for wider distribution. Thank you. --KartikMistry (discusión) 17:34 21
llam 2015 (UTC)

My apologies for posting this message in English. Please help translate it if
you can.

The Wikimedia Foundation would like your feedback about how we can reimagine
Wikimedia Foundation grants, to better support people and ideas in your
Wikimedia project. Ways to participate:

(Opt-out Instructions) This message was sent by I JethroBT (WMF) through
MediaWiki message delivery. 23:50 18 tha 2015 (UTC)

Please help translate the statements on Meta Wiki. You can read more on the
Wikimedia blog.

My apologies for posting this message in English. Please help translate it if
you can.

Greetings! The Individual Engagement Grants program is accepting proposals until
September 29th to fund new tools, community-building processes, and other
experimental ideas that enhance the work of Wikimedia volunteers. Whether you
need a small or large amount of funds (up to $30,000 USD), Individual Engagement
Grants can support you and your team’s project development time in addition to
project expenses such as materials, travel, and rental space.

I JethroBT (WMF), Community Resources, Wikimedia Foundation. 20:52 4 llmp 2015
(UTC)

(Opt-out Instructions) This message was sent by I JethroBT (WMF) (talk) through
MediaWiki message delivery.

My apologies for posting this message in English. Please help translate it if
you can.

Greetings! The Individual Engagement Grants program is accepting proposals until
September 29th to fund new tools, community-building processes, and other
experimental ideas that enhance the work of Wikimedia volunteers. Whether you
need a small or large amount of funds (up to $30,000 USD), Individual Engagement
Grants can support you and your team’s project development time in addition to
project expenses such as materials, travel, and rental space.

I JethroBT (WMF), Community Resources, Wikimedia Foundation. 21:54 4 llmp 2015
(UTC)

(Opt-out Instructions) This message was sent by I JethroBT (WMF) (talk) through
MediaWiki message delivery.

There is still one week left to submit Individual Engagement Grant (IEG)
proposals before the September 29th deadline. If you have ideas for new tools,
community-building processes, and other experimental projects that enhance the
work of Wikimedia volunteers, start your proposal today! Please encourage others
who have great ideas to apply as well. Support is available if you want help
turning your idea into a grant request.

Last month, we asked for community feedback on a proposal to change the
structure of WMF grant programs. Thanks to the 200+ people who participated! A
report on what we learned and changed based on this consultation is now
available.

Come read about the findings and next steps as WMF’s Community Resources team
begins to implement changes based on your feedback. Your questions and comments
are welcome on the outcomes discussion page.

Last month, we asked for community feedback on a proposal to change the
structure of WMF grant programs. Thanks to the 200+ people who participated! A
report on what we learned and changed based on this consultation is now
available.

Come read about the findings and next steps as WMF’s Community Resources team
begins to implement changes based on your feedback. Your questions and comments
are welcome on the outcomes discussion page.

The Community Advocacy team the Wikimedia Foundation has opened a consultation
on the topic of harassment on Meta. The consultation period is intended to run
for one month from today, November 16, and end on December 17. Please share your
thoughts there on harassment-related issues facing our communities and potential
solutions. (Note: this consultation is not intended to evaluate specific cases
of harassment, but rather to discuss the problem of harassment itself.)

This is a message regarding the proposed 2015 Free Bassel banner. Translations
are available.

This is to inform all Wikimedia contributors that a straw poll seeking your
involvement has just been started on Meta-Wiki.

As some of your might be aware, a small group of Wikimedia volunteers have
proposed a banner campaign informing Wikipedia readers about the urgent
situation of our fellow Wikipedian, open source software developer and Creative
Commons activist, Bassel Khartabil. An exemplary banner and an explanatory page
have now been prepared, and translated into about half a dozen languages by
volunteer translators.

We are seeking your involvement to decide if the global Wikimedia community
approves starting a banner campaign asking Wikipedia readers to call on the
Syrian government to release Bassel from prison. We understand that a campaign
like this would be unprecedented in Wikipedia's history, which is why we're
seeking the widest possible consensus among the community.

Given Bassel's urgent situation and the resulting tight schedule, we ask
everyone to get involved with the poll and the discussion to the widest possible
extent, and to promote it among your communities as soon as possible.

(Apologies for writing in English; please kindly translate this message into
your own language.)

Posted by the MediaWiki message delivery 21:47, 25 November 2015 (UTC) •
Translate • Get help

Patrick Earley (WMF) via MediaWiki message delivery (discusión) 01:49 5 chi 2016
(UTC)

Patrick Earley (WMF) via MediaWiki message delivery (discusión) 02:49 5 chi 2016
(UTC)

Your input is welcome (and greatly desired) at the Meta discussion, 2016
Strategy/Community consultation.

Apologies for English, where this is posted on a non-English project. We thought
it was more important to get the consultation translated as much as possible,
and good headway has been made there in some languages. There is still much to
do, however! We created m:2016 Strategy/Translations to try to help coordinate
what needs translation and what progress is being made. :)

I hope you'll join us! Maggie Dennis via MediaWiki message delivery (discusión)
19:06 18 chi 2016 (UTC)

Aymara is missing from this page:
https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/There_is_also_a_Wikipedia_in_your_language More
than 100 languages are now listed. Thank you, Varlaam (discusión) 03:03 4 ana
2016 (UTC)

Greetings! The Individual Engagement Grants (IEG) program is accepting proposals
until April 12th to fund new tools, research, outreach efforts, and other
experiments that enhance the work of Wikimedia volunteers. Whether you need a
small or large amount of funds (up to $30,000 USD), IEGs can support you and
your team’s project development time in addition to project expenses such as
materials, travel, and rental space.

Hello, after six weeks of community discussion about Wikipedia to the Moon,
there are now 10 different proposals for content for the mission. Starting
today, you can vote for them on Meta-Wiki, and decide what we will work on: a
Wikipedia canon, different lists, the Moon in 300 languages, an astronomy
editathon, featured articles, articles about technology, endangered things, or
DNA-related topics. You can even vote against community involvement. Voting is
open until 24 June. Sorry that this message is again in English only, but we are
using village pumps to reach as many communities as possible, so that everyone
knows they can vote. Best, Moon team at Wikimedia Deutschland 15:31 10 juy 2016
(UTC)

You may already have heard about Wikipedia to the Moon: A team of scientists
called the “PT Scientists” are going to send a space craft to the moon in 2017
and they want to take Wikipedia along with them. Because Wikipedia is so big, we
cannot send all of it to the moon. That is why the international
Wikipedia-community has voted to send all “Featured Articles and Featured Lists“
from all languages in Wikipedia.

“Featured Articles“ is a category in many language versions of Wikipedia that
collects the very best articles in that language. Your community does not
currently have a „Featured Articles“ category. Ideally, we want to take every
language on Wikipedia to the moon and we also want to take the best articles in
your language. That is why we would like you to tell us what the very best
articles in your language are.

Greetings! The Project Grants program is currently accepting proposals for
funding. There is just over a week left to submit before the October 11
deadline. If you have ideas for software, offline outreach, research, online
community organizing, or other projects that enhance the work of Wikimedia
volunteers, start your proposal today! Please encourage others who have great
ideas to apply as well. Support is available if you want help turning your idea
into a grant request.

Hello! I'm writing from the Wikimedia Foundation to invite you to give your
feedback on a proposed move from CC BY-SA 3.0 to a CC BY-SA 4.0 license across
all Wikimedia projects. The consultation will run from October 5 to November 8,
and we hope to receive a wide range of viewpoints and opinions. Please, if you
are interested, take part in the discussion on Meta-Wiki.

Apologies that this message is only in English. This message can be read and
translated in more languages here. Joe Sutherland (talk) 01:34 6 tay 2016 (UTC)

I apologise that this message is in English.
⧼Centralnotice-shared-help-translate⧽

Select strong passwords – eight or more characters long, and containing letters,
numbers, and punctuation. Joe Sutherland (kutkatasiña) / MediaWiki message
delivery (discusión) 23:59 13 awt 2016 (UTC)

Please accept my apologies - that first line should read "Help with
translations!". Joe Sutherland (WMF) (talk) / MediaWiki message delivery
(discusión) 00:11 14 awt 2016 (UTC)

James Forrester (Product Manager, Editing department, Wikimedia Foundation)
--19:31 14 jall 2016 (UTC)



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phisi

Phisix jaqin uywatawa. Saminakapax kunaymanirakiwa. T’arwapax wali
juch’usanakkiwa. Lip’ichipax wali quñawa. Aka uywat ñawikux janiw jach’äkiti,
jiskpachakiwa. Uñtapax jach’a uturunkur (tijri) uñtatawa. Jichhax luräwinakapxat
qhanancht’añäni; yaqhiphpachax jupanakax k’achchakiw jan kun süxtayas sarnaqiri.
Ukat kunapachati sustjasipki, jan ukax kun katjañatakix chachpin khämar khämar
thuqhtas t’ijtañ yatipxaraki. Janiw kunampis jasak katjayasipkiti. Mä arunx
saraksnawa, kawkha aylluns jaqimp chikax jakapxakiwa, ukapachparakiw pata,
qhirwa, ancha junt’u uraqina, ukat jach’a markanakan kun utjapxi. Manq’anakapax
akanakawa: milk’i, aycha, k’awna, ukat yaqhanakampi. Phisinakax kuns
manq’apxakiwa, jilpachapinix jaqi manq’ampiw jakasipxi, ukampins challwakiw jan
waxt’añati, uk manq’antapxix q’alpin sawrintapxiri. Ukat walitatayañax sinti
ch’amäxiriwa. Thixit challw churatakiw juk’at juk’at walirxapxiri.

Ukat niy mä phaxs jalkiptawäx ukat phisi qallunakax jach’itanakäxapxiwa.
Ukjamïpanx jaqipax janiw taqpach uywkaspati, jupax yaqhanakaruw jisk’a phisinakx
uywxañapa. Ukjaman jan manq’at jaktayaskañapataki. Jichhax khithiti mä phis
uywasiñ munk ukjax, jupax phisimp turkasiñatakix kuns apasiñappiniw. Jan
ukjamäkas ukax phisix janiw achak katxirïxiti, ina pisi amuyukiw jilsuri. Patanx
ukjam saräwinipxiwa, ukat sipan jach’a markanakanx janiw pachpäkiti. Jupanakax
qulqimpikiw phisx alasxapxi.



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tupak_katari

Julián Apaza Nina, jupax Túpac Catari, Katari janukasti Qatari sutimpi
uñt’atataynawa (Ayo Ayo, suyu Sica Sica, 1750 – La Paz, 15 uru noviembre
phaxsita aka 1781) aymara jupasti walpunrak ch’axwawayatayna khaya q’aranaktuqi
Alto Perúuksana, Bartolina Sisakullakampchikt’ata.

Aka Túpak Katari sutipsti pä sutitwa apthapitäna Túpaq Amaru II; maysatsti Tomás
Katari Chayantan irptiripa.

Túpac Katari jilasti pusitunk waranqh jaqinakwa jawsthapitayna ukjamatwa
Ch’uqiyapu markarux muyuntapxatayna (jichhaxa La Pazsutinixiwa), paykutiw
muyuntapxatayna 1781, nayririnsti pallapallanakax tuwaqasipxataynawa.

Qhipirinsti Andrés Túpak Amaru jilax Túpac Katariruw mayacht’asitayna, ukjamatwa
wali purapat ch’amañchasipxatayna. Maysatsti pallapallanakamp jan ukax uñisir
jaqinakaw uka mayacht’awxa tukjayapxatayna, ukjamata jiwayañataki.

Tupak Katari, Tomas Amaru jilanakaxa patak mayan urunakaw Ch’uqiyapu marakarux
muyuntapxatayna, khaya 13 uru marzo phaxsit saraqatata 1781, pallapallanakax
ukjam uñjasax Buenos aires markat juk’amp pallapallanakx aptayanipxarakitayna.
Tata virrey Agustín de Jáuregüi jupax sumat askichxapxañäni sasaw sallqantañ
munatäna, ukjamipansti janirakiw Tupak Katari jilax jayskataynati, ukjamatwa
Achacachi markar purisin juk’amp ch’amañchasiriw saratayna. Yaqha jaqinakpachpaw
ukjam uñjasax pallapallanakar awiskatapxatayna, ukjamipansti khaya 9 uru
noviembre phaxsit saraqataruw 1781 marana, q’ara español jaqinakax
katuntawayapxatayna. Ukjam katuntasasti walrak t’aqhisiyapxatayna, suxta
urunakaw walpun nuwsupxatayna, taksupxatayna, ukjatwa pusi qaqilunakaru
chinkatapxatayna. Ukatsijanchipxa aksar uksaruw jakaskir ch’iyanuqupxatayna.
Ukjam ch’iyanuqusasti Qullasuyu markan jakirinakarurakiw taqituqin
uñachayapxatayna, jani mayampis khitis “sartasipxañanakapataki jupanak tuqi”.
P’iqipasti khaysa K’iliK’ili (La Paz)tuqinkaskiwa, amparapasti khaysa Ayo Ayo
tuqina, Ch’iqa amparapasti khaysa Achacachituqina; kupi charapasti khaysa
Chulumani tuqina, ukjamaraki ch’iqa charapasti khaysa Caquiaviri tuqinraki,
lluqupasti khä Radio San Gabriel tuqiwjana.



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Piruw_yarawi_nasyunal

Qispisqañam kachkanchik ñawpaq kananchik wiñaypaq, ñawpaqtaraq pakachun
wach'inta Intinchik pakachun Sayasunmi ñuqanchik chiqapta Llaqtanchikmi wiñaypaq
ruwasqa (3 kuti)

Yarayma Achka watam piruwanu sarusqa, qillay waskhata aysapurqan kamallisqa
millay kawsayriyman achka watam, unay watam achka watam ch'inpi llakirqan Chay
chayllapim willka qaparimuy, qispiriypi k'ancharikamun rikch'ariymi llapapaq
kamakun. sarunchasqan, sarunchasqan sarurchasqan qispiyta yallin saruchasqan
qispiyta yallin qispiyta yallin |col2=Huk runap t'ikrasqan (Traducción de otra
persona)

Qispichisqam kanchik wiñaypaq Kananchik wiñaypaq Ñawpaqtaqa k'anchanta pakachun
K'anchanta inti Pisisun willkachasqa munayman Hanaqchan llaqtanchismi wiñayman
Pisisun willkachasqa munayman Hanaqchan llaqtanchis wiñayman

Llaqta runam unay wata mat'isqa Takyachaqnin waskharta aysarqan Wiñaychasqa usuy
warma kaymanmi Unay pachan unay pachan Unay pachan phutikuq ch'inlla Willka
qapariynin ñak'aymanta Qispiy qucha patapi uyarikun Ñakay warmakayninta
chhapchirispan K'umuchisqa k'umuchisqa K'umuchisqa mat'inta huqarin Mat'inta
huqarin



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wuliwiya

Wuliwyax (kastilla aru: Bolivia) Awya Yalan mä jach'a suyupawa. Kawkinkkitix
Bolivia Markax ukawjax nayra pachanakax Qullasuyu sutimp uñt'atataynawa. Aka
Qullasuyust pusi suyunkiritaynaw Tawantinsuyu taypinxa. Aka Tawantinsuyunst Inka
jila kullakanakaw jakasipxiritayna. Taqi jupanakast wali suman jakañrakw taqi
jach'a jisk'a suyunakarux apawayapxiritayna. Uka laq'a achachilanakax taqi
kunans wali amuyumpipuniw sartapxiritayna. Ukhamatw arst'asipxiritayna "Qhip
nayr uñtasapuniw sarnaqaña" sasina. Ukjamaraki taqi yänakatix utjkäna, taqi
uywanakatix utjkäna, jupanakampix wali askinxampunwa qamasipxiritayna. Ukjamatwa
uraqixa Pachamamamatayna.

Khaya 1492 maranwa Españul q'ara jaqinakaxa aka Awyalala tuqirux purinipxatayna.
Jupanakasti machaq uraq jiqxattanxa sasaw walpun kusisipxatayna ukjamaraki
musparapxatayna. Jupanakaxa aliq umir, lunthat jan wali jaqinakkamakiw
jutapxatayna. Jupanakasti khä Reyna Isabel ukan khitanakapapxarakitaynawa.
Jupanakasti wali jan amuyun jaqinakapxataynawa, khitirus jan wal uñjiri, quri
munir lunthat jaqinaka ukjamaw jupanakax aka Awyayala tuqin jakañ
qalltapxatayna. Ukatsi khaya 1532 maranrakwa khaya Kajamarka-Pirwa (Piruw)
tuqirux purntapxatayna. Ukansti taqi kasta markachirinakatix utjkäna ukanakar
jiwayañ qalltapxatayna, ukjamatwa Atawallpa jilarusa jiwayapoxatayna, taqi
qurinakapsa qatusisa. Ukjamatrakwa Machu Pikchu jach'a marksa qur thaqkawirux
t'unjapxarakitayna.

Bolivia jan ukasti Wuliwya sutimpix aka 1825 maran ukjam
suticht'asiwayapxarakitayna. Ukapachanxa walja españul criollo sutin jaqinakaw
wali mirantxapxatayna. Ukatsti jupanakatakix janiw suma qamawi jiqxatapkanati,
ukatwi yaqhachsiña amtapxatayna. Ukhamatwa jichhurunakkamax Bolivia sutimpi
uñt'atatanxa, uka arux Simon Bolivar ukatpï jutixa. Jupasti qhispiyiri ukjam
uñt'atarakiwa jupanakanxa. Ukjamipansa janiw Aymara, Qhichwa juk'amp
markanakatakix qhispiyawix utjkataynakati. Jichhurunakkamasa Aymaranakaxa
jisk'achatasipkakiwa, ukjamipansa wali amuyunakrakwa wauna jil kullakanakax
p'arxtayasipkaraki.



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buliwya

Wuliwyax (kastilla aru: Bolivia) Awya Yalan mä jach'a suyupawa. Kawkinkkitix
Bolivia Markax ukawjax nayra pachanakax Qullasuyu sutimp uñt'atataynawa. Aka
Qullasuyust pusi suyunkiritaynaw Tawantinsuyu taypinxa. Aka Tawantinsuyunst Inka
jila kullakanakaw jakasipxiritayna. Taqi jupanakast wali suman jakañrakw taqi
jach'a jisk'a suyunakarux apawayapxiritayna. Uka laq'a achachilanakax taqi
kunans wali amuyumpipuniw sartapxiritayna. Ukhamatw arst'asipxiritayna "Qhip
nayr uñtasapuniw sarnaqaña" sasina. Ukjamaraki taqi yänakatix utjkäna, taqi
uywanakatix utjkäna, jupanakampix wali askinxampunwa qamasipxiritayna. Ukjamatwa
uraqixa Pachamamamatayna.

Khaya 1492 maranwa Españul q'ara jaqinakaxa aka Awyalala tuqirux purinipxatayna.
Jupanakasti machaq uraq jiqxattanxa sasaw walpun kusisipxatayna ukjamaraki
musparapxatayna. Jupanakaxa aliq umir, lunthat jan wali jaqinakkamakiw
jutapxatayna. Jupanakasti khä Reyna Isabel ukan khitanakapapxarakitaynawa.
Jupanakasti wali jan amuyun jaqinakapxataynawa, khitirus jan wal uñjiri, quri
munir lunthat jaqinaka ukjamaw jupanakax aka Awyayala tuqin jakañ
qalltapxatayna. Ukatsi khaya 1532 maranrakwa khaya Kajamarka-Pirwa (Piruw)
tuqirux purntapxatayna. Ukansti taqi kasta markachirinakatix utjkäna ukanakar
jiwayañ qalltapxatayna, ukjamatwa Atawallpa jilarusa jiwayapoxatayna, taqi
qurinakapsa qatusisa. Ukjamatrakwa Machu Pikchu jach'a marksa qur thaqkawirux
t'unjapxarakitayna.

Bolivia jan ukasti Wuliwya sutimpix aka 1825 maran ukjam
suticht'asiwayapxarakitayna. Ukapachanxa walja españul criollo sutin jaqinakaw
wali mirantxapxatayna. Ukatsti jupanakatakix janiw suma qamawi jiqxatapkanati,
ukatwi yaqhachsiña amtapxatayna. Ukhamatwa jichhurunakkamax Bolivia sutimpi
uñt'atatanxa, uka arux Simon Bolivar ukatpï jutixa. Jupasti qhispiyiri ukjam
uñt'atarakiwa jupanakanxa. Ukjamipansa janiw Aymara, Qhichwa juk'amp
markanakatakix qhispiyawix utjkataynakati. Jichhurunakkamasa Aymaranakaxa
jisk'achatasipkakiwa, ukjamipansa wali amuyunakrakwa wauna jil kullakanakax
p'arxtayasipkaraki.



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Broken/Jayma_punku/2007

Soy el usuario Kanon6917, hace ya algunos meses creé una nueva portada para esta
wiki (basándome en la portada española), desde entonces ha habido un pequeño
desarrollo de esta wikipedia, pero mayormente de IP's y de usuario sin páginas
de presentación. Me gustaría poder impulsar un poco más el desarrollo de esta
wiki, y por eso invito a todo colaborador a registrarse, y si es posible a dejar
un mensaje aquí, para que todos nos conozcamos. No hay problema si desconocen el
idioma aymara, toda colaboración será valorada. =) --Kanon6917 22:53 30 jul 2007
(UTC)

Hello! I ask for permission to run my interwiki bot Byrialbot here at the Aymara
Wikipedia, and to get a bot flag for it.

Please give a bot bit to SieBot, so it will not flood your RC as it adds
interwiki links using pywikipedia's interwiki.py. SieBot is active on about 160
Wikipedias. See the user page of the bot for more details, or check a complete
overview of its activities here. Cheers! Siebrand (talk) 08:30 17 ago 2007 (UTC)

Hello! I ask for permission to run my interwiki bot PipepBot here, and to get a
bot flag for it.

This is to request a bot flag for Synthebot. It has already made some test
contributions. Its technical information is summarized below.

Further technical information can be read on its main page. Thank you in
advance. Regards, --Julian 16:22 17 dic 2007 (UTC)



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Altu_pata

Altupata markax Chuqiyapu jach'a suyu uksa sapa markankakiwa, Qullasuyunx inti
jalanta (Oeste) 4.000msnm ukxan jikxatasi, qhirwa uraqin ukhamarak metropolitana
La Paz markatx noroeste uksankiwa, ukat aka (2010) maranx 1.184.942 ukha
markachirinakaniwa. Jacha Yatiqañ Universidad Pública de el Alto ukax
yatiqirinakatak askiwa. Aeropuerto Internacional El Alto y el Comando de la
Fuerza Aérea Boliviana ukas Altu patamarkankarakiwa. Walja jisk’a aljasiw
qhathunakaw utji, markanx 5600 impresanaka fawrikanaka ukatx khusu uma
utjayañanakaw utji, jach’a markat yänak ukhamark materia prima
apayañchiqawjarakiwa. Altu pata markax orquesta sinfónica, museo, yaqha
instituciones culturales ukanaknirakiwa. Altupatarux patatuqinakat jakaw
jikjatañatakix mantanipxi, ukjam mantanjapxataplaykux kipka municipio nixiwa,
machaq utanakat ukhamarak nayra utanakat mä machaq jach’a uñstiri markjam
uñt’atawa

Nayra yatxatawi Uñt’at jisk’a qamawinakan Qulqituqi Yatiyawinaka Pacha Sarawi
Uñakipt’awi Uñxatapxarakima Yaqhanakamp chikañcht’ata Nayra yatxatawi Altu
patamarkax chiqpachans mä istañchhakinwa ukatsti wali jach’aruw jilatatawayxi, 6
uru achuqa phaxsin 1985 uka maranw (sección de provincia) uñt’ayasiwayi,
ukxarusti 26 uru sata qallta phaxsinwa 1986 uka maran jach’a marka sutimpirakiw
uñt’ayasiwayi.

SarawiAka markan markachirinakax kunayman sarawinipxiwa, jupanakax taqikast
yaqawinakaruw arkapxi; sisnawa: Tatakuranakaru,(Católicos), ukhamaraki kunayman
yupaychawinaka ukampis yaqhipanakax achachilanakaru, Pachamamaru waxt’asipxi.
“16 de Julio” uka uruxa, kunayman thuqt’awinakamp wali jach’a jikthaptawix utji,
ukanx suma uñt’at thuquyir tukirinaka,thuqurinakaw wal jach’añchayapxi, mä
jach’a tam thuqurix uñt’atawa, Chacaltaya 91.7 ukanx waranq pusipatakan thuquriw
utji. Uka urutakix kunayman aljasirinaka, thuqurinaka ukhamarak thuquñ is
ch’ukurinakax marpachaw wal wakichasipx aka thuquw jach’anchañataki. Aka markanx
utjarakiwa, “ Museo de Arte Antonio Paredes Candía , La Escuela Municipal de
Arte”, ukanx wawanakaw munañaparjam kunayman yatxatapxi; jisnawa, Danza Clásica,
Danza Folklórica, Artes Plásticas, Artes escénicas, Música Clásica ukhamarak
Cinematografía. Uñakipt’awi1. ↑ *Gobierno Municipal de El Alto. «Base legal de
creación del municipio de El Alto». Consultado el 06/07 de 2008.[editar]
Uñxatapxarakima Guerra del GasAymaráAeropuerto Internacional El
Alto[editar]Yaqhanakamp chikañcht’ataSitio web oficial de la alcaldía de El
AltoNoticias Bolivianas El AltoEstadísticas departamentales, año 2005. Instituto
Nacional de Estadística (pdf)Blog oficial de la Universidad Pública de El Alto
(UPEA)Coordenadas: 16°31′S 68°10′O﻿ / ﻿-16.517, -68.167Obtenido de
"http://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_Alto"Categorías: Localidades de Bolivia |
Localidades de La Paz



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jos%C3%A9_Portugal

José Portugal Catacora (* Puno, 1911 mara yuritayna - Lima, 1998 mara yuriwi)
Piruw qillqiri.

"Declaramos a José Portugal incorporado a la falange de maestros idealistas, a
la vez que prácticos. Dentro de poco su pluma nos dará pensamientos más cuajados
i el eco de su acción será un galardón más para los maestros primarios del
Perú". Emilio Vasquez. En el prólogo a Niños del Kollao (1937).

"Humildes maestros perdidos en la inmensidad del altiplano o en el laberinto de
la serranía mantienen la llama viva de su apostolado pedagógico: son los
verdaderos maestros, los creadores del Perú esencial, consagrados con místico
ardimiento a cumplir la más alta misión humana. Saludemos en José Portugal
Catacora a esa floración de maestros nuevos" (Luis E. Valcarcel; En artículo en
el diario el Sol, Cusco,1940).

"El Normalista José Portugal Catacora tan celoso en el cumplimiento de sus
deberes docentes, quiere cumplir su misión social publicando para los nños una
serie de leyendas, tradiciones y biografía de caracter nacional y de sentido
histórico". Julian Palacio R. En la presentaciòn a "Puno Tierra de Leyenda"
(1952).

"Hacer conocer el folklore el valor del folklore a través de sus infinitas
peculiaridades, es obra bella, humana y patriotica. Y esto es lo que está
haciendo José Portugal Catacora, puneño de cepa que domina desde niño dos
lenguas nativas de ese extraordinario departamento que es Puno". Ernesto More.
En la presentación de "Danzas y Bailes del Altiplano" (1981).



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_Alto

Altupata markax Chuqiyapu jach'a suyu uksa sapa markankakiwa, Qullasuyunx inti
jalanta (Oeste) 4.000msnm ukxan jikxatasi, qhirwa uraqin ukhamarak metropolitana
La Paz markatx noroeste uksankiwa, ukat aka (2010) maranx 1.184.942 ukha
markachirinakaniwa. Jacha Yatiqañ Universidad Pública de el Alto ukax
yatiqirinakatak askiwa. Aeropuerto Internacional El Alto y el Comando de la
Fuerza Aérea Boliviana ukas Altu patamarkankarakiwa. Walja jisk’a aljasiw
qhathunakaw utji, markanx 5600 impresanaka fawrikanaka ukatx khusu uma
utjayañanakaw utji, jach’a markat yänak ukhamark materia prima
apayañchiqawjarakiwa. Altu pata markax orquesta sinfónica, museo, yaqha
instituciones culturales ukanaknirakiwa. Altupatarux patatuqinakat jakaw
jikjatañatakix mantanipxi, ukjam mantanjapxataplaykux kipka municipio nixiwa,
machaq utanakat ukhamarak nayra utanakat mä machaq jach’a uñstiri markjam
uñt’atawa

Nayra yatxatawi Uñt’at jisk’a qamawinakan Qulqituqi Yatiyawinaka Pacha Sarawi
Uñakipt’awi Uñxatapxarakima Yaqhanakamp chikañcht’ata Nayra yatxatawi Altu
patamarkax chiqpachans mä istañchhakinwa ukatsti wali jach’aruw jilatatawayxi, 6
uru achuqa phaxsin 1985 uka maranw (sección de provincia) uñt’ayasiwayi,
ukxarusti 26 uru sata qallta phaxsinwa 1986 uka maran jach’a marka sutimpirakiw
uñt’ayasiwayi.

SarawiAka markan markachirinakax kunayman sarawinipxiwa, jupanakax taqikast
yaqawinakaruw arkapxi; sisnawa: Tatakuranakaru,(Católicos), ukhamaraki kunayman
yupaychawinaka ukampis yaqhipanakax achachilanakaru, Pachamamaru waxt’asipxi.
“16 de Julio” uka uruxa, kunayman thuqt’awinakamp wali jach’a jikthaptawix utji,
ukanx suma uñt’at thuquyir tukirinaka,thuqurinakaw wal jach’añchayapxi, mä
jach’a tam thuqurix uñt’atawa, Chacaltaya 91.7 ukanx waranq pusipatakan thuquriw
utji. Uka urutakix kunayman aljasirinaka, thuqurinaka ukhamarak thuquñ is
ch’ukurinakax marpachaw wal wakichasipx aka thuquw jach’anchañataki. Aka markanx
utjarakiwa, “ Museo de Arte Antonio Paredes Candía , La Escuela Municipal de
Arte”, ukanx wawanakaw munañaparjam kunayman yatxatapxi; jisnawa, Danza Clásica,
Danza Folklórica, Artes Plásticas, Artes escénicas, Música Clásica ukhamarak
Cinematografía. Uñakipt’awi1. ↑ *Gobierno Municipal de El Alto. «Base legal de
creación del municipio de El Alto». Consultado el 06/07 de 2008.[editar]
Uñxatapxarakima Guerra del GasAymaráAeropuerto Internacional El
Alto[editar]Yaqhanakamp chikañcht’ataSitio web oficial de la alcaldía de El
AltoNoticias Bolivianas El AltoEstadísticas departamentales, año 2005. Instituto
Nacional de Estadística (pdf)Blog oficial de la Universidad Pública de El Alto
(UPEA)Coordenadas: 16°31′S 68°10′O﻿ / ﻿-16.517, -68.167Obtenido de
"http://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/El_Alto"Categorías: Localidades de Bolivia |
Localidades de La Paz



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chhijchhimpi_Q%27ixuq%27ixumpi

Chhijchhimpi Q'ixuq'ixumpixa mä Aymara siwsäwiwa. Aka siwsawxa nayra laq'a
achachilanakatpachwa wawat wawar parlaniwayapxiritayna. Jichhurunakkamasa
taqiwjana arsutapunirakiwa.

Mä uruxa, mä tataw junt’u uraqtuqir wallp aljasinï sasin thakhinjam saraskäna,
ukat akatjamataw mä jan uñt’at janq’u sunkhan tatax jikxatatayna. Tatasti,
jupamp chikt’atarakiw thakhinjam sarxapxatayna. Wali jay sarasinsti, mä
muspharkaya, lliphipkir marka uñacht’ayatayna, uka markasti qurikamakipunïnwa,
ukansti jisk’a chhiqhan wawanakakiw qamasipxarakïnxa; tatax uk uñjasasti
aliqapuniw muspharatayna. Janq’u sunkhan tataxa, akaw markaxaxa, akan wallpam
jila chanir aljasïta sasin arxayarakitayna. Jach’a markar purisasti, suni uraqit
jutir tatarux quri phukh uñchat’ayatayna. Ukjamäkipan chhiqhan wawanakasti janiw
akat sarxätati, nänakampiw qhiparxäta sapxarakitaynawa. Tatasti quri phukh
uñxatasax mayak nayranakapax juykt’awayxatayna, janiw kuns uñjxänti, ukat wälpin
mulljasxarakïna: ¡kunataks akar juttxa! sasin chuym liq’isirakïna. Janipuniw
kuns uñjxänti, ukat kaja jawq’ayatayna; juykhu tatax kaj jawq’asaw tux… tux…
tux… thakhinjam sararakïna. Sinti, sinti… mulljatapunïnwa:¡kamachakïsa,
janirakis uñxtixä! sasin llakt’asïna. Jañq’u sunkhan tatax mayampiw quri phukh
uñantayatayna, uñantasasti mayak nayranakapax jist’artxatayna, ukat wäli
kusisitayna. Nayranïxasasti kunti Illimani quri markan utjkän taqi ukanak
uñjxäna. Ukat janq’u sunkhan tataxa: Jichhürut uksarux qulliriruw tukxät sasaw
sarakitayna; jaypachatsti, wawanakatrakiw jikt’asitayna: akjam wawanakx
janipuniw uñjirïkti kunats chhiqhankamaki sasina. Janq’u sunkhan jaqisti ukankax
limphu wawanakawa, awk taykanakapat armatanaka, jan sutin wawanakaw sasin
yatiyatayna. Jumasti khitirakïta jiskt’ataxa: nayax q’ixuq’ixütwa sarakitaynawa;
nayax chhijchhimp chikt’aw sarnaqta, ukjamarus nayaw nayr chursma sataynawa,
¡wali lup’iñjamawa! Nayrapacha achachil awichanakasax pachamama uraqin
utjirinakar wali yäqapxiritayna: qullunakaru, q’ixuq’ixuru, jach’a jawiranakaru
yaqhanakampiru, ukat askinjamaw sarnaqapxarakirïtayna.



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chapar_Aru

Querido hermano hermana Aymara hablante (pausa) Sí, a usted, a él, a ellos, a
todos ustedes les digo que nos demos cuenta!

Jichhürunakan taqikunaw mayjt’awayxi; ukarux yaqhipanakax “Proceso de Cambio”,
sapxiwa. Yaqhipanakasti “Proceso de Descolonización” sutimpiw uñt’apxi. Ukat
akjän ukjanrak suma qamañtuqit qhanancht’apxi. Ukampins janjamakiw suma kawksar
sarats amuyaskasmächtanti.

En estos días todo ya ha cambiado; A ello algunos lo llaman “Proceso de Cambio”.
Y otros lo conocen con el nombre de “Descolonización”. Luego, también hablan del
“Vivir Bien” en aquí y en allá. Sin embargo, parece que aún no nos hemos dado de
cuenta exactamente a donde nos dirigimos!

Aka uraqin yuririnakax janis nayrïr arusax utjkas ukjam Castellano-kraks
jach’anchayasktanxä. Ukjamïpan nayrar sartäwinakax sayantañxamak munxi.
(samart’äwi) Jälla, tayka arusamp jiwaspach achunak uñstayasay sayt’asxapxañäni.

Los que vivimos en esta tierra seguimos llevando en lo alto el Castellano, como
si no tuviésemos a nuestra primera lengua! Por ser así, todos los progresos
parecen que quieren estancarse. (pausa) A propósito, nos levantermos pues junto
con nuestra lengua materna y produciendo productos!



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ch%27u%C3%B1u

Ch'uñu ch'uñuchaña Nayraqatax ch'uñux juyphin luxsuta ukatx lupimp wañt'ayat
ch'iyar waña ch'uqiwa. Ukatx ajam luräwinakaw ch'uñu lurañatakix wakisi: Phinat
ch'uqi pallïwi Niya juyphix pachax puriniñampixi ukjaw phinanakax imarxaña, ukat
ch'uqix tam tam palljxaña. C'huñu ch'uqix tantiyunakas jisk'anakas ukaw wakichña
ch'uñuwir apxañataki. Ch'uñüwi Ch'uñuwix ch'uñu ch'uq juyphimp juypsuyañatak
tilan chhiqawa. Yaqhip markanakanx kawkhantix wal juyphix purki ukhar apatawa.
Ukampis jilpachas jawir lakanakaru, qhuthañ thiyanakar wakichatarakiwa.
Jant'aküwi Wali sum juyphi ch'uñu ch'uqir katuñapatakix waylla sat ñut'u jichhuw
jant'akuña, ukat ukjar ch'uqix tilantaña. Qhallaña Niya juysthapiw ch'uñu
ch'uqix uman qhalljaña ukjamat qalam t'uqkirik willtax apthapiña. Jaqhipax
nayrïr k'ank'a arukiw umamp qhallirix ch'uñüwir sarapxi. Takiña Takiñax
kunawrasatix luxutax lupimp chullurxi ukjaw kayump takirxaña. Jilpachax
warminakaw takipxi ikampis chhachax takirakispawa. Wañayaña Ch'uñu takiratax
lupimpiw wañsuyxaña, ukatakix uta jak'anakaruw luxsutpach apxapxi. Sillp'iña
Wañaski ukjaw sillp'iñax jan phayasiñ urasax wasitat sillp'iskañataki. Yamakis
jach'a ch'uñunakax wali sum q'arak sillp'sutañapawa, kunattix ukanakaw jach'a
phuñchawinakan phayata. khuyuña Wañat ch'uñux khuyxañarakiwa, ukatakix thayaw
munasi. Pirwaña Thayamp t'unanak khuysuyxatax yutinakaruw imxaña. Yaqhipanakax
sixinakaruw uchasxapsi. Chulluchiña Suma wañt'ayata, thayampis khuysut chúñuw
manq'añatak umar chulluyxaña. Ukaw ch'uñu chulluchiña sata. Ukatx umamp
chullutax phayasiñakixiwa. Akjam kask ch'uñunakaw utjaraki Qhach'u ch'uñu Qacha
ch'uñu Tuju ch'uñu Waña ch'uñu



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Broken/Jayma_punku

The call for applications for Wikimania Scholarships to attend Wikimania 2010 in
Gdansk, Poland (July 9-11) is now open. The Wikimedia Foundation offers
Scholarships to pay for selected individuals' round trip travel, accommodations,
and registration at the conference. To apply, visit the Wikimania 2010
scholarships information page, click the secure link available there, and fill
out the form to apply. For additional information, please visit the Scholarships
information and FAQ pages:

Hallo, my name is Anastasiya Lvova, I'm "duty" in Connectivity project. The
essence of the "Connectivity" project is to study and enhance the coherence of
Wikipedia, or, in other words, to improve hypertext navigation between articles.
The project deals with deadends, isolated articles, non-categorized articles,
transitivity of the category tree, etc.

We want to work with your language version, but we need configured
MediaWiki:Disambiguationspage for it (with direct links to template namespace
pages, for example,
ru:MediaWiki:Disambiguationspage/de:MediaWiki:Disambiguationspage/fr:MediaWiki:D
isambiguationspage). Is it possible to set it up for our usage?

Gracias al trabajo de Diego Grez, ahora la Wikipedia en Aymara cuenta con un
nuevo logo acorde con los cambios que se vienen realizando en la Wikipedia en
general.

Se necesita que se ayude a traducir la interfaz del wiki, para eso, diríjanse a
translatewiki:, el wiki de las traducciones de MediaWiki y muchos otros
proyectos libres más, entonces siga a translatewiki:Project:Translator, y yo o
cualquier otro burócrata del wiki le otorgará derechos de traductor. Se
necesitan urgentemente los mensajes más usados de MediaWiki, para hacer las
visitas a Wikipidiya de los nativos, más amigable y acogedora. :) Gracias.
--Diego Grez 00:27 15 juy 2010 (UTC)

¡Ya tenemos nuestro propio canal IRC! Visiten http://webchat.freenode.net ,
ingresen su nick, y en channels usen #wikipedia-ay. Saludos! --Diego Grez 00:03
19 juy 2010 (UTC)

Estoy creando las páginas para los años que faltan, desde 1500 hasta 1970. Voy a
floodear los cambios recientes, pero no creo que afecte, ya que es un 'apoyo'
para la enciclopedia. Sólo faltará que les añadamos contenido después ;)
Saludos. --Diego Grez 00:33 19 juy 2010 (UTC)

HotCat (Wikipedia:HotCat) es una extensión JavaScript para añadir fácilmente
categorías a artículos y otras páginas del Wiki. Puedes activarlo añadiendo el
siguiente código en tu monobook.js y tu vector.js:

Versión estilizada para la Aymar Wikipidiya. Saludos. Diego Grez 18:54 25 hui
2010 (UTC)

I am requesting the change of my nickname at MetaWiki. I have four years on
Wikipedia (more than 3 years on the Aymar Wikipedia), this old nick Kanon6917 is
in disuse in other personal accounts since now my email is Kanon6996@... I am
trying to unify all my accounts and also on Wikipedia with this definite
nickname (I have just done so on the Spanish Wikipedia and on the English
Wikipedia). Thanks in advance. Kanon6917 07:15 29 hui 2010 (UTC)

Please put your translation on my Meta-Wiki talk page. Thanks in advance for
your help! Cbrown1023 tuqisiwi 16:40 25 tha 2010 (UTC)

The meta translators are already actively engaged in the annual drive to
distribute our messages and we encourage you to do the same, but we would like
to point everyone to the developments we've made in banner messages- from
creation to commentary to the ones that will go live for test and for the drive
itself in November. It's one of our goals to make sure that all volunteers know
that there is a place for them in the Fundraising drive. We've started the setup
on meta for both banner submission, statistical analysis, and grouping
volunteers together that would like to find specific focus and work in that
area.

Fundraising 2010 is preparing to start, and we want your project to be a part of
the global movement to support free knowledge. The Wikimedia Foundation is
engaging with local communities that build the projects to play an active part
in this year's fundraiser. This year we will be working to best serve all the
language communities by providing messages that are best suited for each
location.

To do this, we need your help. We are testing messages and we want to be sure
that our messages will work with your language. If it does not and your
community can come up with your own banner in the spirit of supporting free
knowledge, we invite you to submit your proposals and be active in this process.
Wikimedia is for you, join us in supporting free knowledge in your local
community! Keegan, WMF Fundraiser 2010 04:35 15 llmp 2010 (UTC)

The Fundraising Committee is issuing all interested community members a
challenge: we want you to beat Jimmy. The appeal from Jimmy Wales and the
corresponding banner have been tested head-to-head with other successful
banners, and the results are clear: it's our best performing message... by a
lot. This year we have a lofty fundraising goal; we need all of our banners to
bring in donations like the Jimmy Appeal, but no one wants to keep the Jimmy
banner up for two months. We want to run donor quotes, and other wonderful
ideas, but we have to have banners that work as well as or better than the Jimmy
appeal.

We've just released the highlights from a donor focus group, and the results of
our donor survey. With one month to the launch of the fundraiser, the messages
we test must be driven by data from our tests and surveys - we can no longer
rely on instinct alone.

We've redesigned our fundraising meta pages with the Jimmy challenge; check out
the survey results and propose/discuss banners that reflect these findings. Add
the banners you think will 'beat Jimmy' here to be tested Tuesday October 12
against Jimmy. Keegan, WMF Fundraiser 2010 02:17 8 tay 2010 (UTC)

Further details and educational materials will be available shortly. The
referendum is scheduled for 12-27 August, 2011, and will be conducted on servers
hosted by a neutral third party. Referendum details, officials, voting
requirements, and supporting materials will be posted at Meta:Image filter
referendum shortly.

Sorry for delivering you a message in English. Please help translate the pages
on the referendum on Meta and join the translators mailing list.

For the coordinating committee, Philippe (WMF) Cbrown1023 Risker Mardetanha
PeterSymonds Robert Harris

Wikipdiya:Jayma punku hace referencia al mate de coca? Las palabras por separado
según el diccionario que tengo de aymara punky como puerta y Jayma como lugar
comunal. Es correcto hablar Puerta comunal como un lugar donde uno se reune a
hablar? La imagen que muestra el mate de coca hace alusión a la taza de café que
se usa en la wikipedia en español donde es común reunirse para tomar un café.
Entiendo que esto no tiene las mismas connotaciones en aymara. No comprendo bien
cuál podría ser la palabra más adecuada y me encantaría escuchar más opiniones
de ustedes para poder sugerir un cambio. Alhen 22:20 11 llmp 2011 (UTC)

En esta página se encuentran los mensajes más comúnes de la Wikipedia en aymara.
Estuve revisando el historial de contribuciones y al parecer hay un tira y
afloja entre lo que le parece a un usuarios y lo que piensa otro que debería el
nombre. Como un ejemplo, pueden ver este enlace. Les pido por favor que usemos
la página de discusión para poder llegar a un acuerdo y que esto luego sea
trasladado a http://translatewiki.net/wiki/ donde luego serán trasladas a la
interfaz. Mucho de los mensajes de aymara está en español, pero con un poco de
tiempo todo la interfaz estará en aymara. :) Alhen 22:26 11 llmp 2011 (UTC)



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Broken/Art%C3%ADculos_que_toda_Wikipedia_deber%C3%ADa_tener

Este artículo en otras lenguas: Aymara(ay) - 日本語 (ja) - Català (ca) - Cymraeg
(cy) - Español (es) - Guaraní (gn) - Náhuatl (nah) - Simple English (en) - Norsk
(no) - Polski (pl) - Português (pt) - Quechua (qu) - Italiano (it) - Latina (la)
- ... Traduce esta página! Originalmente publicado en meta:List of articles all
languages should have

El motivo por el que se ha creado esta página (listar los artículos que toda
Wikipedia debería tener) está siendo discutido en el canal#wikilist de la red
IRC Freenode así como los artículos que aquí se incluyen, por lo tanto, por
favor, si se desea incluir alguna entrada sería preferible discutirla
previamente en la #wikilist, aunque si hay algún aspecto muy importante de la
cultura quechua, lo puedes incluir al listado, o crear un listado nuevo con
aspectos fundamentales de la cultura quechua. Otra de las cosas que puedes ir
haciendo es ir traduciendo este listado al quechua.

Para crear uno de estos artículos tan solo tienes que pulsar el enlace en rojo y
ponerte a escribir en el editor de texto que te aparece en la pantalla. Cuando
termines de escribir, pulsas save page, que está debajo de la ventana del editor
de texto a la izquierda, y ya has creado una página de la futura enciclopedia en
quechua. Para modificar una página que ya está creada, sólo tienes que pulsar el
botón edit que está en la parte de encima de la página, y ya puedes modificar,
corregir, ampliar lo que quieras. Es muy fácil.

En estos momentos un usuario está realizando otro listado de artículos
vinculados con la cultura hispanoamericana que sería aconsejable su aparición en
la Wikipedia de nuestro ámbito.

Propuesta de Lista de artículos que la Wikipedia en español debería tener.
Siéntase libre de agregar lo que falte.



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/M%C3%AFxiku_yarawi_nasyunal

Mïxiku yarawi nasyunal (kastilla aru: Himno Nacional Mexicano), Mïxiku (1854).
Mïxiku yarawi: Mexicanos, al grito de guerra.

Mexicanos, al grito de guerra El acero aprestad y el bridón, Y retiemble en sus
centros la tierra Al sonoro rugir del cañón.

Ciña ¡Oh Patria! tus sienes de oliva de la paz el arcángel divino, que en el
cielo tu eterno destino por el dedo de Dios se escribió. Mas si osare un extraño
enemigo profanar con su planta tu suelo, piensa ¡Oh Patria querida! que el cielo
un soldado en cada hijo te dio.

¡Guerra, guerra sin tregua al que intente de la patria manchar los blasones!
¡guerra, guerra! los patrios pendones en las olas de sangre empapad. ¡Guerra,
guerra! en el monte, en el valle, los cañones horrísonos truenen y los ecos
sonoros resuenen con las voces de ¡Unión! ¡Libertad!

Antes, Patria, que inermes tus hijos bajo el yugo su cuello dobleguen, tus
campiñas con sangre se rieguen, sobre sangre se estampe su pie. Y tus templos,
palacios y torres se derrumben con hórrido estruendo, y sus ruinas existan
diciendo: de mil héroes la patria aquí fue.

¡Patria! ¡Patria! tus hijos te juran exhalar en tus aras su aliento, si el
clarín con su bélico acento los convoca a lidiar con valor. ¡Para ti las
guirnaldas de oliva! ¡un recuerdo para ellos de gloria! ¡un laurel para ti de
victoria! ¡un sepulcro para ellos de honor!

Mexicanos, al grito de guerra El acero aprestad y el bridón, Y retiemble en sus
centros la tierra Al sonoro rugir del cañón.

Ciña ¡Oh Patria! tus sienes de oliva de la paz el arcángel divino, que en el
cielo tu eterno destino por el dedo de Dios se escribió.

Mas si osare un extraño enemigo profanar con su planta tu suelo, piensa ¡Oh
Patria querida! que el cielo un soldado en cada hijo te dio.

En sangrientos combates los viste por tu amor palpitando sus senos, arrostrar la
metralla serenos, y la muerte o la gloria buscar.

Si el recuerdo de antiguas hazañas, de tus hijos inflama la mente, los laureles
del triunfo, tu frente, volverán inmortales a ornar.

Como al golpe del rayo la encina se derrumba hasta el hondo torrente la
discordia vencida, impotente, a los pies del arcángel cayó.

Ya no más de tus hijos la sangre se derrame en contienda de hermanos; solo
encuentre el acero en tus manos quien tu nombre sagrado insultó.

Del guerrero inmortal de Zempoala Te defiende la espada terrible, Y sostiene su
brazo invencible tu sagrado pendón tricolor.

El será del feliz mexicano en la paz y en la guerra el caudillo, porque el supo
sus armas de brillo circundar en los campos de honor.

¡Guerra, guerra sin tregua al que intente de la patria manchar los blasones!
¡guerra, guerra! los patrios pendones en las olas de sangre empapad.

Plantilla:Col-3 ¡Guerra, guerra! en el monte, en el valle, los cañones
horrísonos truenen y los ecos sonoros resuenen con las voces de ¡Unión!
¡Libertad!

Antes, Patria, que inermes tus hijos bajo el yugo su cuello dobleguen, tus
campiñas con sangre se rieguen, sobre sangre se estampe su pie.

Y tus templos, palacios y torres se derrumben con hórrido estruendo, y sus
ruinas existan diciendo: de mil héroes la patria aquí fue.

Si a la lid contra hueste enemiga nos convoca la trompa guerrera, de Iturbide la
sacra bandera ¡Mexicanos! valientes seguid.

Y a los fieros bridones les sirvan las vencidas enseñas de alfombra: los
laureles del triunfo den sombra a la frente del bravo adalid.

Vuelva altivo a los patrios hogares el guerrero a contar su victoria, ostentando
las palmas de gloria que supiera en la lid conquistar.

Tornáranse sus lauros sangrientos en guirnaldas de mirtos y rosas, que el amor
de las hijas y esposas también sabe a los bravos premiar.

Y el que al golpe de ardiente metralla de la Patria en las aras sucumba obtendrá
en recompensa una tumba donde brille de gloria la luz.

Y de Iguala la enseña querida a su espada sangrienta enlazada, de laurel
inmortal coronada, formará de su fosa la cruz.

¡Patria! ¡Patria! tus hijos te juran exhalar en tus aras su aliento, si el
clarín con su bélico acento los convoca a lidiar con valor.

¡Para ti las guirnaldas de oliva; ¡un recuerdo para ellos de gloria! ¡un laurel
para ti de victoria; ¡un sepulcro para ellos de honor!



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luis_de_Orbegoso

Luis José de Orbegoso y Moncada (* Uskil, 1795 mara 25 uru Thaya phaxsin
yuritayna - † Trujillo, 1847 mara 5 uru Anata phaxsin yuriwi),  Piruw jacha
marka militar & anakithiri. Piruw Prisidinti (1833-1836).

Awki: Justo Pastor de Orbegoso Isasi y Burutarán; Tayka: Francisca Josefa
Moncada Galindo y Morales. Warmi: María Josefa Martínez de Pinillos Cacho.
Yuqanaka: Pedro José de Orbegoso y Martínez de Pinillos, María de la Mercedes de
la Santísima Trinidad Bonifacia de Orbegoso y Martínez de Pinillos, Manuela de
Orbegoso y Martínez de Pinillos, Gregoria de Orbegoso y Martínez de Pinillos,
Manuel María del Corazón de Jesús de Orbegoso y Martínez de Pinillos, José Cleto
de Orbegoso y Martínez de Pinillos, Antonia María de las Mercedes Emilia de
Orbegoso y Martínez de Pinillos, Diego Serapio De Orbegoso y Martínez de
Pinillos, Matilde De Orbegoso y Martínez de Pinillos, Nemesio Domingo de las
Mercedes de Orbegoso y Martínez de Pinillos, Juan Guillermo Eloy de Orbegoso y
Martínez de Pinillos, Isabel de Orbegoso y Martínez de Pinillos, Josefina de
Orbegoso y Martínez de Pinillos; Esteban De Orbegoso.



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jan_Sutin_Wila_Wawanakamp_Rayun_Purit_Uywanakamp_Ima%C3%B1a

Kantuyux jan sutin sullu jiwat wawanakamp rayun purit jiwat uywanakamp
imañawjawa. Ukawjax qullu iraman p’ujru jichhu jichh taypin jiqxatasi, ukat
janiw jachäkarakiti, jisk’pachakiwa. Qalamark ayllutx patak pä tunkan k’atanak
sarañankiwa. Uka jak’anx janiw jaqix jakkiti, uka jak’anakarux urunakkiw uyw
jark’ir anakipxiri. Ukat ukjamïpanx mäk’a chhijuniwa. Jararankhunakkiw jan
jallük ukjax uka taypin jalanaqaskiri.

Kunjamati qalltañatakix saskayätanxa, ukawjax wila jiwat sullunakamp rayun purit
uywanakamp imañatakiwa, janiw jach’a jiwat jaqinak p’ampachañatakïkiti. Ukat
waljaninakaw akjam jiskt’asipxaspa: Kunats amstanki. Jan qullunkkasp ukax kunas
kamachaspa. Kunats sullu wawanak imañatakikïpacha. Aka qhipha maranakanx
ukawjarux usuchjasit jiwat wila wawanak apasipkakpachati. Taqi aka
jiskt’äwinakax jaysäwinkamapxiwa. Nayraqata, jan sutin jiwat wawanak imañax
janiw aliqat qullupatankkiti, jan ukasti akkïrinakat uka alaxanki; kunapachati
maynix usuchjasi, sullsu ukjaxa, jaqix qullurupiniw rispachäpxirïna, ukjaman jan
walt’äwinakax jayankxañapataki.



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Broken/Jayma_punku/2008

Dear community. I am writing to you to promote a special wiki called Betawiki.
This wiki facilitates the localisation (l10n) of the MediaWiki interface. You
may have changed many messages here on Wikipedia to use your language for your
language profile, but if you would log in to for example the English language
Wiktionary, you would not be able to use the interface as well translated as
here. Infact, of the 1792 messages in the core of MediaWiki, 0 messages have
been translated. Betawiki also supports the translation of messages of over 75
extensions, with 981 messages.

If you wish to contribute to better support of your language in MediaWiki, as
well as for many MediaWiki extensions, please visit Betawiki, create an account
and request translator priviledges. You can see the current status of
localisation of your language on meta and do not forget to get in touch with
others that may already be working on your language on Betawiki.

If you have any further questions, please let me know on my talk page on
Betawiki. We will try and assist you as much as possible, for example by
importing all messages from a local wiki for you to start with, if you so
desire.

You can also find us on the Freenode IRC network in the channel #mediawiki-i18n
where we would be happy to help you get started.

Thank you very much for your attention and I do hope to see some of you on
Betawiki soon! Cheers! Siebrand@Betawiki 09:38 20 sep 2007 (UTC)

I request bot flags for usuario:TXiKiBoT, usuario:JAnDbot and usuario:Thijs!bot
at this wiki. * Hugo tuqisiña 08:48 15 may 2008 (UTC)

Hello. To facilitate steward granting of bot access, I suggest implementing the
standard bot policy on this wiki. This will involve creating a redirect to this
page from Project:Bot policy, and adding a line at the top noting that it is
used here. In particular, this policy allows automatic acceptance of known
interlanguage linking bots (if this page says that is acceptable), which form
the vast majority of such requests. —Pathoschild 08:00:23, 28 mayo 2008 (UTC)
08:00 28 may 2008 (UTC)

Hereby, I request a bot flag for User:MelancholieBot. It's a interwiki bot
(flagged on 60++ wikis), see User:MelancholieBot for details, please. --- Best
regards, Melancholie 22:53 29 may 2008 (UTC)

Hereby, I request a bot flag for User:CarsracBot. It's a interwiki bot (flagged
on 60++ wikis), see nl:User:CarsracBot for details, please. --- Best regards,
Carsrac 11:27 30 may 2008 (UTC)

Hello. The standard bot policy was updated to allow global bots, which are now
technically possible. These are trusted bots that will be given bot access on
all wikis that allow global bots (the local policy or request page must
explicitly allow them, or they won't get access on this wiki). The current
requirements for global bots are:

Does anyone object to allowing global bots on this wiki? I'll update the local
policy in a week if there are no objections. Thanks. —Pathoschild 17:50:49, 26
julio 2008 (UTC)

Hoi, the most often used MediaWiki messages (less than 25% of all MediaWiki
messages) are the most visible messages. They help our readers and editors the
most. We are aiming to get these messages localised for as many languages as
possible by the end of the year. Please help us and yourself and localise these
messages. Thanks, GerardM 10:22 17 nuw 2008 (UTC)



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bolivia

Wuliwyax (kastilla aru: Bolivia) Awya Yalan mä jach'a suyupawa. Kawkinkkitix
Bolivia Markax ukawjax nayra pachanakax Qullasuyu sutimp uñt'atataynawa. Aka
Qullasuyust pusi suyunkiritaynaw Tawantinsuyu taypinxa. Aka Tawantinsuyunst Inka
jila kullakanakaw jakasipxiritayna. Taqi jupanakast wali suman jakañrakw taqi
jach'a jisk'a suyunakarux apawayapxiritayna. Uka laq'a achachilanakax taqi
kunans wali amuyumpipuniw sartapxiritayna. Ukhamatw arst'asipxiritayna "Qhip
nayr uñtasapuniw sarnaqaña" sasina. Ukjamaraki taqi yänakatix utjkäna, taqi
uywanakatix utjkäna, jupanakampix wali askinxampunwa qamasipxiritayna. Ukjamatwa
uraqixa Pachamamamatayna.

Khaya 1492 maranwa Españul q'ara jaqinakaxa aka Awyalala tuqirux purinipxatayna.
Jupanakasti machaq uraq jiqxattanxa sasaw walpun kusisipxatayna ukjamaraki
musparapxatayna. Jupanakaxa aliq umir, lunthat jan wali jaqinakkamakiw
jutapxatayna. Jupanakasti khä Reyna Isabel ukan khitanakapapxarakitaynawa.
Jupanakasti wali jan amuyun jaqinakapxataynawa, khitirus jan wal uñjiri, quri
munir lunthat jaqinaka ukjamaw jupanakax aka Awyayala tuqin jakañ
qalltapxatayna. Ukatsi khaya 1532 maranrakwa khaya Kajamarka-Pirwa (Piruw)
tuqirux purntapxatayna. Ukansti taqi kasta markachirinakatix utjkäna ukanakar
jiwayañ qalltapxatayna, ukjamatwa Atawallpa jilarusa jiwayapoxatayna, taqi
qurinakapsa qatusisa. Ukjamatrakwa Machu Pikchu jach'a marksa qur thaqkawirux
t'unjapxarakitayna.

Bolivia jan ukasti Wuliwya sutimpix aka 1825 maran ukjam
suticht'asiwayapxarakitayna. Ukapachanxa walja españul criollo sutin jaqinakaw
wali mirantxapxatayna. Ukatsti jupanakatakix janiw suma qamawi jiqxatapkanati,
ukatwi yaqhachsiña amtapxatayna. Ukhamatwa jichhurunakkamax Bolivia sutimpi
uñt'atatanxa, uka arux Simon Bolivar ukatpï jutixa. Jupasti qhispiyiri ukjam
uñt'atarakiwa jupanakanxa. Ukjamipansa janiw Aymara, Qhichwa juk'amp
markanakatakix qhispiyawix utjkataynakati. Jichhurunakkamasa Aymaranakaxa
jisk'achatasipkakiwa, ukjamipansa wali amuyunakrakwa wauna jil kullakanakax
p'arxtayasipkaraki.



https://ay.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arku_Apsu%C3%B1_Jayp%27u

Kunjamati taqi chaqan machaq mar suyt’apxi, ukjamarakiw aka Qalamarka ayllun
yaqha mar katuqañtakix may may luräwinak wakicht’apxi. Taqi ukax phunchhäw
wakicht’irinakan lurt’atawa. Wakicht’añtakix kimsar jaljatapxiwa. Kimspachaniw
nayra saräwinakarjam phuqht’ayapxi. Akatakix jupanakax jayäkipan
wakichjapxiritayna; sapa mayniw arkump charanakapamp wakicht’i, ukat pinkill
phust’irinaks achikt’asiraki.

Sapa maraw phunchhäw wakicht’añatak jupanakax aynjasipxi, mä arun saraksnawa,
janiw yaqhan ajllitäpkiti; qalltañtakix Nawirar jayp’uw ilisan arkunak
ñachsupxi, ukat sayt’ayjapxi. Ukat paqalq urut machaq mar suyt’äw jayp’ukiw niya
phisqa jan ukax suxta pachar kapillarkam apsjapxi. Uka jayp’ux jupanakax akjam
isthapt’atäpjarakiwa: chachanakax lluch’uni, punchuni, chikutini, chalinani,
iwij pantalunani, ukat ch’uspas jaquntat ukjamapjarakiwa. Warminakäkiristi wila
phulluni, ukat ch’uxña pulliran ukjam isthapitapxarakiwa. Jupanakax paninkamaw
thuqhusisarak janq’u wiphalas khiwisisarakiw qullur mistsupxi. Qullu patar
purisinx thuqhusisaw kapill muytapxi. Ukanx mä qawqha pachakiw ukankaniwapxi,
ukat niya kimsa qalqaruw qullut saraqasin utanakaparkam sarjapxi.



