https://bug.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E1%A8%84%E1%A8%97%E1%A8%94%E1%A8%97%E1%A8%80

Fisika maccucung gejala alang béla dék tuo a materi ri lingkup roang erenge
wettu. Fisikawan maccinagak sipak ri lanrek moncong, mulai partikel
submikroskopis béla mattanjak maneng materi (fisika partikel) gangka sipak
materi alang semesta, majjaji seddi kosmos.

Tassipolo sipak fisika éngka maneng sistem materi, kua hukum amaraddekeng
energi. Sipak kua iaé maderri riolli hukum fisika. Fisika maderri pangissengeng
pong baku, apak alamasia-sia pangissengeng alang laing (ᨅᨗᨕᨚᨒᨚᨁᨗ, ᨀᨗᨆᨗᨕ,
geologi, éréngé laing-laing) maccucungi jenis sistem materi tattentu béla
mattunruki hukum fisika. Akkalarudduseng ni, pangissengeng molekul éréngé sak
kimia béla ritanjak ni saisa kimia. Sipak molekul ritentui sipak seddi sak
kimia, béla géppa rimanessang pangissengeng fisika kua mekanika kuantum,
termodinamika éréngé elektromagnetika.

Fisika muannéng makkaikang rapek éngkalinga matematika. Teori fisika maéga
rinyatang ri notasi matematis, éréngé matematika béla ribuakang biasa na lebih
kompelek kega matematika béla ribuakang ri bidang sains laing na. mabbedang
pallawangeng fisika éréngé matematika, fisika makkaikang éngkalinga pemerian
lino material, kenneng matematika makkaikang éngkalinga pola-pola abstrak béla
dék pulana makkaikang éngkalinga lino material. Iakia, mabbedang éro dék pulana
rita muannéng.



https://bug.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daftar_%E1%A8%93%E1%A8%8A%E1%A8%98%E1%A8%95_%E1%A8%93%E1%A8%8A%E1%A8%98%E1%A8%95_%E1%A8%91%E1%A8%97_%E1%A8%92%E1%A8%97%E1%A8%8A%E1%A8%9A

Afganistan - Afrika Selatan - Albania - Aljazair - Amerika Serikat – Andorra -
Angola - Antigua dan Barbuda - Arab Saudi – Argentina - Armenia - Australia –
Austria - Azerbaijan

Bangladesh – Bahama - Bahrain - Barbados - Belanda - Belarus - Belgia – Belize –
Benin - Bermuda - Bhutan - Bolivia - Bosnia Herzegovina - Botswana - Brasil -
Britania Raya - Brunei Darussalam - Bulgaria - Burkina Faso - Burundi

Tanjung Verde - Chad - Republik Ceko – Republik Afrika Tengah - Chili - Republik
Rakyat Tiongkok - Kepulauan Cook

Gabon - Gambia - Gaza – Georgia - Ghana - Grenada - Greenland (Tana Ijo) –
Guatemala - Guinea - Guinea Bissau - Guinea Khatulistiwa - Guyana

India - Indonesia - Inggris - Irlandia - Irlandia Utara - Italia – Irak – Iran -
Islandia - Israel – Italia

Kamboja – Kamerun - Kanada - Kazakhstan – Kenya – Kirgizia - Kiribati - Kolombia
- Komoro - Republik Kongo - Republik Demokrasi Kongo - Korea Selatan - Korea
Utara – Kosta Rika - Kroasia – Kuba - Kuwait

Laos – Latvia - Lesotho - Lebanon – Liberia - Libya – Liechtenstein - Lithuania
- Luxemburg

Madagaskar - Maladewa - Malawi - Malaysia - Mali - Malta - Makedonia - Maroko -
Martinika – Mauritania - Mauritius - Meksiko - Mesir – Mikronesia - Moldavia -
Monako - Mongolia - Mozambik - Myanmar

Pakistan - Palau - Otoritas Palestina: Tepi Barat dan Jalur Gaza – Panama –
Pantai Gading - Paraguay - Papua Nugini – Perancis – Peru - Polandia - Portugal
– Puerto Riko

Sahara Barat - Saint Kitts dan Nevis - Saint Lucia - San Marino - Samoa - Sao
Tome dan Principe - Selandia Baru - Senegal - Serbia dan Montenegro - Seychelles
- Sierra Leone - Singapura – Siprus - Republik Turki Siprus Utara - Skotlandia -
Slovenia - Slovakia – Solomon - Somalia - Spanyol - Sri Lanka - St. Pierre &
Miquelon - Saint Vincent dan Grenadines - Sudan - Suriah - Suriname – Swaziland
- Swedia - Swiss

Taiwan - Tajikistan - Tanzania - Tepi Barat - Thailand - Timor Timur – Togo -
Tonga - Trinidad dan Tobago - Tunisia - Turki – Turkmenistan - Tuvalu

Uganda - Ukraina – Uni Emirat Arab - Uni Soviet (pura ni pecah) – Uruguay -
Usbekistan



https://bug.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia%3aWarung_Kopi

I'holave requested sysop status for this Wikipedia from Meta Wiki. I may gain
sysop rights if there is/are no objection(s) from other users of this Wikipedia.
Please reply to this statement and state weather you agree or object. You can
view the request page on meta here. --— Kurnia 19:42, 28 Uléŋ 1 2011 (UTC)

Saya lihat di perubahan terbaru Wikipedia Bahasa Bugis, banyak sekali dibuat
artikel tentang komune di Perancis. Saya senang bahwa wikipedia bahasa Bugis
kembali bergairah, namun saya hendak sedikit mengungkapkan keganjalan di hati
saya. Artikel-artikel komune yang sangat banyak itu, sebagian besar hanya satu
kalimat yang berisi "Komune x terletak di x, Perancis". Masalahnya adalah,
pentingkah? Apakah penting membuat ribuan artikel seperti itu, yang tidak ada
manfaatnya sama sekali? Apa yang bisa didapat dari seonggok kalimat itu? Satu
artikel bermutu yang lengkap jauh lebih berguna daripada satu juta artikel
semacam itu. Menurut saya, untuk wikipedia yang baru akan merangkak seperti
Bugis ini, sebaiknya bertumpu pada pembinaan artikel-artikel dasar dalam
berbagai bidang terlebih dahulu. Misalnya: proton, oksigen, tata surya, dan lain
semacamnya. Selanjutnya artikel-artikel dasar itu dilengkapi, atau paling tidak,
bisa dibaca dan dipetik manfaatnya dari para pembaca. Manfaatnya akan jauh lebih
terasa, daripada jutaan artikel tak bermanfaat seperti itu. Ini hanyalah
seonggok pendapat dari saya, yang merasa sedikit prihatin dengan kejar-kejaran
jumlah artikel, tanpa memedulikan mutu. Kita harus bertumpu pada mutu, bukan
kuantitas, karena ini ensiklopedia. Tingkatkan mutu artikel-artikel dasar, dan
saya yakin Wikipedia Bugis akan maju. Terima kasih dan salam persaudaraan!

I have seen that in the recent change of Bugis Wikipedia, there are so many
articles about commune in France. I am happy that Bugis Wikipedia has returned
to the stage! However, i want to express my concern. These articles, most of
them only consist of, "Commune x is located in xx, France". The problem is, is
it important? Is it important to create thousands of articles like that, which
dont contain any benefit? What can we get from the one-sentence thing? One good,
or even best article, about a topic, is far more useful than one million
one-sentence commune article. I think, for new wikipedia like Bugis, the wiki
should focus on the creation of basic articles, for example proton, oxygen,
solar system, etc. Next, the basic articles must be comprehensive, or at least,
readable, and the benefit can be picked by the reader. It will be far more
useful, rather than a million meaningless commune article. No offence, this is
just my opinion, who is concerned with total article rank race like this. We
should focus on the quality, not quantity, because this is encyclopedia.
Increase the quality of basic articles, and i am sure that Bugis Wikipedia will
be a great wiki. Thank you for your attention! Mimihitam 10:45, 2 Februari 2011
(UTC)m.

Terima kasih atas jawabannya saudara Kurnia :) Ah begitu, tapi menurut saya,
daripada membuat komune-komune tak berarti, lebih baik buatlah rintisan tentang
artikel dasar yang belum ada. Seperti di wikipedia bahasa Banjar, salah satu
perintisnya, Ezagren, bahasa Banjarnya juga masih di tingkat 2, tapi ia banyak
menulis rintisan artikel dasar yang bisa lebih berguna untuk pembaca :) Menurut
saya itu akan jauh lebih menarik orang daripada komune-komune yang akan membuat
orang berpikir "ini ensiklopedia atau basis data komune Perancis"? Oh iya,
mungkin untuk lebih menarik orang lagi, halaman utamanya dihias dengan gambar
pilihan, artikel pilihan, tahukah Anda, dan segala macamnya. Ada pula saran dari
pengguna WBI lain agar menggunakan aksara Latin dulu untuk sementara, karena
Lontara sedikit membingungkan u/ mereka. Terima kasih, jabat erat, dan salam :)
Mimihitam 00:23, 3 Februari 2011 (UTC)

@Mimihitam: Baiklah kalau begitu, saya akan cuba usahakan artikel-artikel
rintisan tentang perkara-perkara asas. Tentang gambar pilihan, sudah saya
letakkan pada Leppa Indoë (draf Laman Utama). Artikel pilihan dan tahukah anda
belum bisa dibuat kerna belum ada artikel yang cukup layak, artikel dengan topik
berlainan juga belum banyak, jadi tahukah anda belum bisa diwujudkan. Saya
sekarang sedang cuba mendapat hak sysop sementara, sesudah mendapatnya, saya
akan rumikan Wikipedia ini. :) --— Kurnia 14:22, 5 Februari 2011 (UTC)

Kapan agaknya wikipedia ini bisa mencapai 10.000 artikel.Semangat 11:20, 10
Februari 2011 (UTC)

I've requested sysop status for this Wikipedia from the Meta Wiki. I may gain
sysop rights if there is/are no objection(s) from other users of this Wikipedia.
Please reply to this statement and state weather about you agree or object. You
can view the request page on meta here. Please. I want to advance this
wikipedia.--Bersatu 10:58, 6 April 2011 (UTC)

I've requested sysop status for this Wikipedia from the Meta Wiki. I may gain
sysop rights if there is/are no objection(s) from other users of this Wikipedia.
Please reply into this statement and state weather about you agree or object.
You can view the request page on meta here. Please. I want to advance this
wikipedia. I must built this Buginese Wikipedias for this future.--Bersatu
(bicara) 23 November 2012 12.34 (UTC)

Hi, I hope I will be a sysop cause I want to upgrade and make onward this
wikipedias. I will help to improve this wikipedias. Thank you.--Aplikasi
(bicara) 23 November 2012 12.51 (UTC)

I see that the two members who asked for sysop for this Wiki are Malaysians.
Don't get me wrong, I don't have any personal objections to Malaysians. But
seeing as Bugis is a language that originated from Indonesia, I think it's
appropriate to have Indonesians running this Wiki. God, I hope that doesn't
sound like something racist. I am from Banjar Wikipedia, and we also have many
Banjars in Malaysia. I'd love to see more Malaysian members contributing to the
Wiki, but I prefer them to write their articles in the original Banjar language
rather than using their own Malaysian Banjar dialect. We don't we want our
English Wikipedia to be written in Singlish either, do we? Jiwa Matahari 04:45,
11 Méi 2011 (UTC)

Further details and educational materials will be available shortly. The
referendum is scheduled for 12-27 August, 2011, and will be conducted on servers
hosted by a neutral third party. Referendum details, officials, voting
requirements, and supporting materials will be posted at Meta:Image filter
referendum shortly.

Sorry for delivering you a message in English. Please help translate the pages
on the referendum on Meta and join the translators mailing list.

For the coordinating committee, Philippe (WMF) Cbrown1023 Risker Mardetanha
PeterSymonds Robert Harris

The Wikimedia Foundation has brought together a new team of developers who are
dedicated to language support. This team is to support all the languages and
consequently it is not realistic to expect that the team members can provide
proper support for your language. It is for this reason that we are looking for
volunteers who will make up a language support team.

As much of the activity will be concentrated on translatewiki.net, it will be a
plus when team members know how to localise at translatewiki.net. Thanks,
Gmeijssen 16 Oktober 2011 12.49 (UTC)

I apologize that you are receiving this message in English. Please help
translate it.

The Wikimedia Foundation is discussing changes to its Terms of Use. The
discussion can be found at Talk:Terms of use. Everyone is invited to join in.
Because the new version of Terms of use is not in final form, we are not able to
present official translations of it. Volunteers are welcome to translate it, as
German volunteers have done at m:Terms of use/de, but we ask that you note at
the top that the translation is unofficial and may become outdated as the
English version is changed. The translation request can be found at
m:Translation requests/WMF/Terms of Use 2 -- Maggie Dennis, Community Liaison 27
Oktober 2011 00.32 (UTC)

I've requested sysop status for this Wikipedia from the Meta Wiki. I may gain
sysop rights if there is/are no objection(s) from other users of this Wikipedia.
Please reply to this statement and state weather about you agree or object. You
can view the request page on meta here. Please. I want to advance this
wikipedia. I must built this Buginese Wikipedias.--Bersatu 29 Oktober 2011 17.16
(UTC)

Hello Wikipedians, my name is Alex and I am working for the Wikimedia Foundation
during the 2011 Fundraiser. This year's fundraiser is intended to be a
collaborative and global effort; we recognize that messages which may perform
well in the United States don't necessarily translate well, or appeal to
international audiences.

I'm contacting you as I am currently looking for volunteers who are willing to
contribute to this project by helping translate and localize messages into your
local language, suggesting community appeals for us to use, and to provide us
with feedback on the Fundraising Meta Page. We've started the setup on meta for
both translation, statistical analysis, and local discussion and testing. We
actively encourage focusing discussion on meta so we can all work together. Use
the talk pages on meta, talk to your local communities, talk to others, talk to
us. Engagement is what we strive for, without each other we would never had made
Wikimedia succeed. The staff working on this fundraiser is comprised of
long-time Wikimedians with as much care and concern for the success of this
drive as the volunteers, and we want you to actively participate and have a
voice. Everyone is welcome to contact any of us on staff at any time with a
timely response to follow. I look forward to working with you during this year's
fundraiser.

If someone could translate this message I would really appreciate it so that
everyone is able to understand our goals and contribute to this year's campaign.
Azariv 31 Oktober 2011 22.22 (UTC)

I apologize that you are receiving this message in English. Please help
translate it.

The Wikimedia Foundation is seeking Community Fellows and project ideas for the
Community Fellowship Program. A Fellowship is a temporary position at the
Wikimedia Foundation in order to work on a specific project or set of projects.
Submissions for 2012 are encouraged to focus on the theme of improving editor
retention and increasing participation in Wikimedia projects. If interested,
please submit a project idea or apply to be a fellow by January 15, 2012. Please
visit https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Wikimedia_Fellowships for more
information.

--Siko Bouterse, Head of Community Fellowships, Wikimedia Foundation 21 Desember
2011 12.49 (UTC)

Wikimedia Foundation is getting ready to push out 1.19 to all the WMF-hosted
wikis. As we finish wrapping up our code review, you can test the new version
right now on beta.wmflabs.org. For more information, please read the release
notes or the start of the final announcement.

Report any problems on the labs beta wiki and we'll work to address them before
they software is released to the production wikis.

Note that this cluster does have SUL but it is not integrated with SUL in
production, so you'll need to create another account. You should avoid using the
same password as you use here. — Global message delivery 14 Januari 2012 23.58
(UTC)

(Apologies if this message isn't in your language.) The Wikimedia Foundation is
planning to upgrade MediaWiki (the software powering this wiki) to its latest
version this month. You can help to test it before it is enabled, to avoid
disruption and breakage. More information is available in the full announcement.
Thank you for your understanding.

Guillaume Paumier, via the Global message delivery system (wrong page? You can
fix it.). 12 Februari 2012 14.51 (UTC)

(Apologies if this message isn't in your language. Please consider translating
it, as well as the full version of this announcement on Meta)

The Wikimedia Foundation is planning to do limited testing of IPv6 on June 2-3.
If there are not too many problems, we may fully enable IPv6 on World IPv6 day
(June 6), and keep it enabled.

Read the full version of this announcement on how to test the behavior of IPv6
with various tools and how to leave bug reports, and to find a fuller analysis
of the implications of the IPv6 migration.

--Erik Möller, VP of Engineering and Product Development, Wikimedia Foundation 2
Juni 2012 00.45 (UTC)

Wikimedia Commons is happy to announce that the 2011 Picture of the Year
competition is now open. We are interested in your opinion as to which images
qualify to be the Picture of the Year 2011. Any user registered at Commons or a
Wikimedia wiki SUL-related to Commons with more than 75 edits before 1 April
2012 (UTC) is welcome to vote and, of course everyone is welcome to view!

About 600 of the best of Wikimedia Common's photos, animations, movies and
graphics were chosen –by the international Wikimedia Commons community– out of
12 million files during 2011 and are now called Featured Pictures.

From professional animal and plant shots to breathtaking panoramas and skylines,
restorations of historically relevant images, images portraying the world's best
architecture, maps, emblems, diagrams created with the most modern technology,
and impressive human portraits, Commons Features Pictures of all flavors.

See you on Commons! --Picture of the Year 2011 Committee 5 Juni 2012 18.05 (UTC)

(Apologies if this message isn't in your language. Please consider translating
it)

As many of you are aware, the Wikimedia Board of Trustees recently initiated
important changes in the way that money is being distributed within the
Wikimedia movement. As part of this, a new community-led "Funds Dissemination
Committee" (FDC) is currently being set up. Already in 2012-13, its
recommendations will guide the decisions about the distribution of over 10
million US dollars among the Foundation, chapters and other eligible entities.

Now, seven capable, knowledgeable and trustworthy community members are sought
to volunteer on the initial Funds Dissemination Committee. It is expected to
take up its work in September. In addition, a community member is sought to be
the Ombudsperson for the FDC process. If you are interested in joining the
committee, read the call for volunteers. Nominations are planned to close on
August 15.

--Anasuya Sengupta, Director of Global Learning and Grantmaking, Wikimedia
Foundation 19 Juli 2012 19.54 (UTC)

You might also be interested in the idea to create a central Wikipedia Library
where approved editors would have access to all participating resource donors.
Add your feedback to the Community Fellowship proposal. Apologies for the
English message (translate here). Go sign up :) --Ocaasi (talk) 16 Agustus 2012
02.12 (UTC)

I apologize for addressing you in English. I would be grateful if you could
translate this message into your language.

The Wikimedia Foundation is conducting a request for comment on a proposed
program that could provide legal assistance to users in specific support roles
who are named in a legal complaint as a defendant because of those roles. We
wanted to be sure that your community was aware of this discussion and would
have a chance to participate in that discussion.

If this page is not the best place to publicize this request for comment, please
help spread the word to those who may be interested in participating. (If you'd
like to help translating the "request for comment", program policy or other
pages into your language and don't know how the translation system works, please
come by my user talk page at m:User talk:Mdennis (WMF). I'll be happy to assist
or to connect you with a volunteer who can assist.)

As some of you might already have heard Wikimedia Deutschland is working on a
new Wikimedia project. It is called m:Wikidata. The goal of Wikidata is to
become a central data repository for the Wikipedias, its sister projects and the
world. In the future it will hold data like the number of inhabitants of a
country, the date of birth of a famous person or the length of a river. These
can then be used in all Wikimedia projects and outside of them.

It'd be great if you could join us, test the demo version, provide feedback and
take part in the development of Wikidata. You can find all the relevant
information including an FAQ and sign-up links for our on-wiki newsletter on the
Wikidata page on Meta.

For further discussions please use this talk page (if you are uncomfortable
writing in English you can also write in your native language there) or point me
to the place where your discussion is happening so I can answer there.

The only pre-requisite is for the volunteer to actually live in the country and
to have access to at least one donation method that we offer for that country
(mainly credit/debit card, but also real-time banking like IDEAL, E-wallets,
etc...) so we can do a live test and see if the donation goes through. All
volunteers will be reimbursed of the donations that eventually succeed (and they
will be low amounts, like 1-2 dollars)

(Apologies if this message isn't in your language.) Next week, the Wikimedia
Foundation will transition its main technical operations to a new data center in
Ashburn, Virginia, USA. This is intended to improve the technical performance
and reliability of all Wikimedia sites, including this wiki. There will be some
times when the site will be in read-only mode, and there may be full outages;
the current target windows for the migration are January 22nd, 23rd and 24th,
2013, from 17:00 to 01:00 UTC (see other timezones on timeanddate.com). More
information is available in the full announcement.

If you would like to stay informed of future technical upgrades, consider
becoming a Tech ambassador and joining the ambassadors mailing list. You will be
able to help your fellow Wikimedians have a voice in technical discussions and
be notified of important decisions.

Guillaume Paumier, via the Global message delivery system (wrong page? You can
fix it.). 19 Januari 2013 15.04 (UTC)

Wikimedia Commons celebrates our featured images of 2012 with this contest. Your
votes decide the Picture of the Year, so remember to vote in the first round by
January 30, 2013.

This message was delivered based on m:Distribution list/Global message delivery.
Translation fetched from: commons:Commons:Picture of the
Year/2012/Translations/Village Pump/en -- Rillke (bicara) 22 Januari 2013 23.46
(UTC)

Wikidata has been in development for a few months now. It is now time for the
roll-out of the first part of it on your Wikipedia. Phase 1 is the support for
the management of language links. It is already being used on the Hungarian,
Hebrew, Italian and English Wikipedias. The next step is to enable the extension
on all other Wikipedias. We have currently planned this for March 6.

Editors on en:wp have created a great page with all the necessary information
for editors and there is also an FAQ for this deployment. Please ask questions
you might have on the FAQ’s discussion page.

To stay up-to-date on everything happening around Wikidata please subscribe to
the newsletter that is delivered weekly to subscribed user’s talk pages. You can
see previous editions here.

I've requested burecrates status for this Wikipedia from the Meta Wiki. I may
gain sysop rights if there is/are no objection(s) from other users of this
Wikipedia. Please reply into this statement and state weather about you agree or
object. You can view the request page on meta here. Please. I want to advance
this wikipedia. I must built this Buginese Wikipedias for this future. There's
no one burecrates on this wiki.--Bersatu (bicara) 24 Februari 2013 03.11 (UTC)

Sorry for writing in English. I hope someone can translate this locally. If you
understand German better than English you can have a look at the announcement on
de:Wikipedia:Kurier.

As I annonced 2 weeks ago, Wikidata phase 1 (language links) has been deployed
here today. Language links in the sidebar are coming from Wikidata in addition
to the ones in the wiki text. To edit them, scroll to the bottom of the language
links, and click edit. You no longer need to maintain these links by hand in the
wiki text of the article.

Where can I find more information and ask questions? Editors on en:wp have
created a great page with all the necessary information for editors and there is
also an FAQ for this deployment. It'd be great if you could bring this to this
wiki if that has not already happened. Please ask questions you might have on
the FAQ’s discussion page.

I want to be kept up to date about Wikidata To stay up-to-date on everything
happening around Wikidata please subscribe to the newsletter that is delivered
weekly to subscribed user’s talk pages.

(Please consider translating this message for the benefit of your fellow
Wikimedians)

Greetings. As you might have seen on the Wikimedia tech blog or the tech
ambassadors list, a new functionality called "Lua" is being enabled on all
Wikimedia sites today. Lua is a scripting language that enables you to write
faster and more powerful MediaWiki templates.

If you have questions about how to convert existing templates to Lua (or how to
create new ones), we'll be holding two support sessions on IRC next week: one on
Wednesday (for Oceania, Asia & America) and one on Friday (for Europe, Africa &
America); see m:IRC office hours for the details. If you can't make it, you can
also get help at mw:Talk:Lua scripting.

If you'd like to learn about this kind of events earlier in advance, consider
becoming a Tech ambassador by subscribing to the mailing list. You will also be
able to help your fellow Wikimedians have a voice in technical discussions and
be notified of important decisions.

Guillaume Paumier, via the Global message delivery system. 13 Maré' 2013 18.48
(UTC) (wrong page? You can fix it.)

Sorry for writing in English. I hope someone can translate this. If you
understand German better than English you can have a look at the announcement on
de:Wikipedia:Kurier.

A while ago the first phase of Wikidata was enabled on this Wikipedia. This
means you are getting the language links in each article from Wikidata. It is
soon time to enable the second phase of Wikidata (infoboxes) here. We have
already done this on the [first 11 Wikipedias] (it, he, hu, ru, tr, uk, uz, hr,
bs, sr, sh) and things are looking good. The next step is English Wikipedia.
This is planned for April 8. If everything works out fine we will deploy on all
remaining Wikipedias on April 10. I will update this part of the FAQ if there
are any issues forcing us to change this date. I will also sent another note to
this village pump once the deployment is finished.

What will happen once we have phase 2 enabled here? Once it is enabled in a few
days you will be able to make use of the structured data that is available on
Wikidata in your articles/infoboxes. It includes things like the symbol for a
chemical element, the ISBN for a book or the top level domain of a country.
(None of this will happen automatically. Someone will have to change the article
or infobox template for this to happen!)

We are working on expanding the parser function so you can for example use
{{#property:chief executive officer}} instead of {{#property:p169}}. The
complete plan for this is here.

Where can I find more information and ask questions? We have collected the main
questions in an FAQ for this deployment. Please ask questions you might have on
the FAQ’s discussion page.

I want to be kept up to date about Wikidata To stay up-to-date on everything
happening around Wikidata please subscribe to the newsletter that is delivered
weekly to subscribed user’s talk pages.

(Silakan pertimbangkan untuk menerjemahkan pesan ini untuk kepentingan
rekan-rekan Wikimedian. Silakan pertimbangkan juga untuk menerjemahkan
proposal.)

Read this message in English / Lleer esti mensaxe n'asturianu / বাংলায় এই
বার্তাটি পড়ুন / Llegiu aquest missatge en català / Læs denne besked på dansk /
Lies diese Nachricht auf Deutsch / Leś cal mesag' chè in Emiliàn / Leer este
mensaje en español / Lue tämä viesti suomeksi / Lire ce message en français /
Ler esta mensaxe en galego / हिन्दी / Pročitajte ovu poruku na hrvatskom / Baca
pesan ini dalam Bahasa Indonesia / Leggi questo messaggio in italiano / ಈ
ಸಂದೇಶವನ್ನು ಕನ್ನಡದಲ್ಲಿ ಓದಿ / Aqra dan il-messaġġ bil-Malti / norsk (bokmål) /
Lees dit bericht in het Nederlands / Przeczytaj tę wiadomość po polsku / Citiți
acest mesaj în română / Прочитать это сообщение на русском / Farriintaan ku aqri
Af-Soomaali / Pročitaj ovu poruku na srpskom (Прочитај ову поруку на српском) /
อ่านข้อความนี้ในภาษาไทย / Прочитати це повідомлення українською мовою / Đọc
thông báo bằng tiếng Việt / 使用中文阅读本信息。

Terdapat permohonan komentar baru di Meta-Wiki menyangkut pencabutan hak-hak
administratif dari Wikimedian yang non-aktif dalam masa waktu lama. Pada
umumnya, proposal dari para pengurus ini akan berlaku pada wikis tanpa proses
peninjauan dari administrator.

Kami juga mengumpulkandaftar proyek disertai prosedur penghapusan administrator
non-aktif di halaman pembicaraan dari permohonan komentar. Jangan
sungkan-sungkan menambahkan proyek(-proyek) anda ke dalam daftar apabila anda
punya kebijakan terhadap ketidakaktifan administrator.

Terima kasih, Billinghurst (thanks to all the translators!) 24 April 2013 04.22
(UTC)

Sorry for writing in English. I hope someone can translate this. If you
understand German better than English you can have a look at the announcement on
de:Wikipedia:Kurier.

A while ago the first phase of Wikidata was enabled on this Wikipedia. This
means you are getting the language links in each article from Wikidata. We have
now enabled the second phase of Wikidata (infoboxes) here. We have already done
this on the [first 11 Wikipedias] (it, he, hu, ru, tr, uk, uz, hr, bs, sr, sh) a
month ago and two days ago on the English Wikipedia. Today all the remaining
Wikipedias followed.

What does having phase 2 enabled here mean? You are now able to make use of the
structured data that is available on Wikidata in your articles/infoboxes. It
includes things like the symbol for a chemical element, the ISBN for a book or
the top level domain of a country. (None of this will happen automatically.
Someone will have to change the article or infobox template for this to happen!)
The current state is just the beginning though. It will be extended based on
feedback we get from you now.

We are working on expanding the parser function so you can for example use
{{#property:headquarter location}} instead of {{#property:p159}}. The complete
plan for this is here.

Where can I test this? You can test it on test2 if you don't want to do it in an
article here.

Where can I find more information and ask questions? We have collected the main
questions in an FAQ for this deployment. Please ask questions you might have on
the FAQ’s discussion page.

I want to be kept up to date about Wikidata To stay up-to-date on everything
happening around Wikidata please subscribe to the newsletter that is delivered
weekly to subscribed user’s talk pages.

We are excited about taking yet another step towards allowing all Wikipedias
share structured data and collect and curate it together. --Lydia Pintscher 24
April 2013 19.03 (UTC)

Hi, apologies for posting this in English, but I wanted to alert your community
to a discussion on Meta about potential changes to the Wikimedia Trademark
Policy. Please translate this statement if you can. We hope that you will all
participate in the discussion; we also welcome translations of the legal team’s
statement into as many languages as possible and encourage you to voice your
thoughts there. Please see the Trademark practices discussion (on Meta-Wiki) for
more information. Thank you! --Mdennis (WMF) (talk)

On June 11, 2013, the Universal Language Selector (ULS) will replace the
features of Mediawiki extensions Narayam and WebFonts. The ULS provides a
flexible way of configuring and delivering language settings like interface
language, fonts, and input methods (keyboard mappings).

Please read the announcement on Meta-Wiki for more information. Runab 5 Juni
2013 14.07 (UTC) (posted via Global message delivery)

My apologies for the incorrect link: You can sign up for ' accounts at the.
Cheers, 16 Juni 2013 21.33 (UTC)

Hello, Sorry for English but It's very important for bot operators so I hope
someone translates this. Pywikipedia is migrating to Git so after July 26, SVN
checkouts won't be updated If you're using Pywikipedia you have to switch to
git, otherwise you will use out-dated framework and your bot might not work
properly. There is a manual for doing that and a blog post explaining about this
change in non-technical language. If you have question feel free to ask in
mw:Manual talk:Pywikipediabot/Gerrit, mailing list, or in the IRC channel. Best
Amir (via Global message delivery). 23 Juli 2013 12.56 (UTC)

The Wikimedia Foundation will soon turn on VisualEditor for all users, all the
time on your Wikipedia. Right now your Wikipedia does not have any local
documents on VisualEditor, and we hope that your community can change that. To
find out about how you can help with translations visit the TranslationCentral
for VisualEditor and read the easy instructions on bringing information to your
Wikipedia. The User Guide and the FAQ are very important to have in your
language.

We want to find out as much as we can from you about VisualEditor and how it
helps your Wikipedia, and having local pages is a great way to start. We also
encourage you to leave feedback on Mediawiki where the community can offer
ideas, opinions, and point out bugs that may still exist in the software that
need to be reported to Bugzilla. If you are able to speak for the concerns of
others in English on MediaWiki or locally I encourage you to help your community
to be represented in this process.

If you can help translate the user interface for VisualEditor to your language,
you can help with that as well. Translatewiki has open tasks for translating
VisualEditor. A direct link to translate the user interface is here. You can see
how we are doing with those translations here. You need an account on
Translatewiki to translate. This account is free and easy to create.

If we can help your community in any way with this process, please let me know
and I will do my best to assist your Wikipedia with this |exciting development.
You can contact me on my meta talk page or by email. You can also contact
Patrick Earley for help with translations and documents on Mediawiki. We look
forward to working with you to bring the VisualEditor experience to your
Wikipedia! Keegan (WMF) (talk) 30 Juli 2013 18.58 (UTC)

Berhubung minimnya masyarakat yang memahami aksara Lontara, maka dari itu saya
mengusulkan untuk menggunakan aksara Latin dalam keseluruhan isi Wikipedia ini.
Mohon pertimbangannya. --Bonaditya (bicara) 5 Agustus 2013 01.37 (UTC)

I've requested sysop status for this Wikipedia from Meta Wiki. I may gain sysop
rights if there is/are no objection(s) from other users of this Wikipedia.
Please reply to this statement and state weather you agree or object. You can
view the request page on meta here. --Bonaditya (bicara) 6 Agustus 2013 14.47
(UTC)

Greetings. Starting on August 21 (tomorrow), all users with an account will be
using HTTPS to access Wikimedia sites. HTTPS brings better security and improves
your privacy. More information is available at m:HTTPS.

If HTTPS causes problems for you, tell us on bugzilla, on IRC (in the
#wikimedia-operations channel) or on meta. If you can't use the other methods,
you can also send an e-mail to https@wikimedia.org.

Greg Grossmeier (via the Global message delivery system). 20 Agustus 2013 18.47
(UTC) (wrong page? You can fix it.)

Notifications will inform users about new activity that affects them on this
wiki in a unified way: for example, this new tool will let you know when you
have new talk page messages, edit reverts, mentions or links -- and is designed
to augment (rather than replace) the watchlist. The Wikimedia Foundation's
editor engagement team developed this tool (code-named 'Echo') earlier this
year, to help users contribute more productively to MediaWiki projects.

We're now getting ready to bring Notifications to almost all other Wikimedia
sites, and are aiming for a 22 October deployment, as outlined in this release
plan. It is important that notifications is translated for all of the languages
we serve.

Please let us know if you have any questions, suggestions or comments about this
new tool. For more information, visit this project hub and this help page.
Keegan (WMF) (talk) 4 Oktober 2013 18.13 (UTC)

I apologize for this message being only in English. Please translate it if
needed to help your community.

The Wikimedia Foundation's multimedia team seeks community guidance on a
proposal to support the MP4 video format. This digital video standard is used
widely around the world to record, edit and watch videos on mobile phones,
desktop computers and home video devices. It is also known as H.264/MPEG-4 or
AVC.

You are also welcome to join tomorrow's Office hours chat on IRC, this Thursday,
January 16, at 19:00 UTC, if you would like to discuss this project with our
team and other community members.

We look forward to a constructive discussion with you, so we can make a more
informed decision together on this important topic. Keegan (WMF) (talk) 16
Januari 2014 06.47 (UTC)

The Catalan-speaking world... Want to find out more? From March 16 to April 15
we will organise the Catalan Culture Challenge, a Wikipedia editing contest in
which victory will go to those who start and improve the greatest number of
articles about 50 key figures of Catalan culture. You can take part by creating
or expanding articles on these people in your native language (or any other one
you speak). It would be lovely to have you on board. :-)

Hello and sorry for writing in English. Can anyone help me translate a small
article (2 paragraphs) from English to your language? Please, fell free to
answer in my talk page in your wiki. Thanks! Xaris333 (bicara) 12 Agustus 2014
00.56 (UTC)

Greetings! The Individual Engagement Grants program is accepting proposals for
funding new experiments from September 1st to 30th. Your idea could improve
Wikimedia projects with a new tool or gadget, a better process to support
community-building on your wiki, research on an important issue, or something
else we haven't thought of yet. Whether you need $200 or $30,000 USD, Individual
Engagement Grants can cover your own project development time in addition to
hiring others to help you.

Hello, Dear wikipedians. I invite you to edit and improve this article and to
add information about your and other country.--Kaiyr (bicara) 31 Oktober 2014
11.21 (UTC)

(Sorry for the English - please translate this message!) MediaWiki message
delivery (bicara) 4 Maré' 2015 20.01 (UTC)

Hello, I made a proposal on Meta to change the rules for the steward
confirmations. Currently consensus to remove is required for a steward to lose
his status, however I think it's fairer to the community if every steward needed
the consensus to keep. As this is an issue that affects all WMF wikis, I'm
sending this notification to let people know & be able to participate. Best
regards, --MF-W 10 April 2015 16.12 (UTC)

This is a message from the 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee.
Translations are available.

I am pleased to announce that nominations are now being accepted for the 2015
Wikimedia Foundation Elections. This year the Board and the FDC Staff are
looking for a diverse set of candidates from regions and projects that are
traditionally under-represented on the board and in the movement as well as
candidates with experience in technology, product or finance. To this end they
have published letters describing what they think is needed and, recognizing
that those who know the community the best are the community themselves, the
election committee is accepting nominations for community members you think
should run and will reach out to those nominated to provide them with
information about the job and the election process.

Board of Trustees The Board of Trustees is the decision-making body that is
ultimately responsible for the long term sustainability of the Foundation, so we
value wide input into its selection. There are three positions being filled.
More information about this role can be found at the board elections page.

Funds Dissemination Committee (FDC) The Funds Dissemination Committee (FDC)
makes recommendations about how to allocate Wikimedia movement funds to eligible
entities. There are five positions being filled. More information about this
role can be found at the FDC elections page.

Funds Dissemination Committee (FDC) Ombud The FDC Ombud receives complaints and
feedback about the FDC process, investigates complaints at the request of the
Board of Trustees, and summarizes the investigations and feedback for the Board
of Trustees on an annual basis. One position is being filled. More information
about this role can be found at the FDC Ombudsperson elections page.

The candidacy submission phase lasts from 00:00 UTC April 20 to 23:59 UTC May 5
for the Board and from 00:00 UTCApril 20 to 23:59 UTC April 30 for the FDC and
FDC Ombudsperson. This year, we are accepting both self-nominations and
nominations of others. More information on this election and the nomination
process can be found on the 2015 Wikimedia elections page on Meta-Wiki.

On behalf of the Elections Committee, -Gregory Varnum (User:Varnent)
Coordinator, 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee

Posted by the MediaWiki message delivery on behalf of the 2015 Wikimedia
Foundation Elections Committee, 05:03, 21 April 2015 (UTC) • Translate • Get
help

This is a message from the 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee.
Translations are available.

Voting has begun for eligible voters in the 2015 elections for the Funds
Dissemination Committee (FDC) and FDC Ombudsperson. Questions and discussion
with the candidates for the Funds Dissemination Committee (FDC) and FDC
Ombudsperson will continue during the voting. Nominations for the Board of
Trustees will be accepted until 23:59 UTC May 5.

The Funds Dissemination Committee (FDC) makes recommendations about how to
allocate Wikimedia movement funds to eligible entities. There are five positions
on the committee being filled.

The FDC Ombudsperson receives complaints and feedback about the FDC process,
investigates complaints at the request of the Board of Trustees, and summarizes
the investigations and feedback for the Board of Trustees on an annual basis.
One position is being filled.

The voting phase lasts from 00:00 UTC May 3 to 23:59 UTC May 10. Click here to
vote. Questions and discussion with the candidates will continue during that
time. Click here to ask the FDC candidates a question. Click here to ask the FDC
Ombudsperson candidates a question. More information on the candidates and the
elections can be found on the 2015 FDC election page, the 2015 FDC Ombudsperson
election page, and the 2015 Board election page on Meta-Wiki.

On behalf of the Elections Committee, -Gregory Varnum (User:Varnent) Volunteer
Coordinator, 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee

Posted by the MediaWiki message delivery 03:45, 4 May 2015 (UTC) • Translate •
Get help

This is a message from the 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee.
Translations are available.

Voting has begun for eligible voters in the 2015 elections for the Wikimedia
Foundation Board of Trustees. Questions and discussion with the candidates for
the Board will continue during the voting.

The Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees is the ultimate governing authority
of the Wikimedia Foundation, a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization registered in
the United States. The Wikimedia Foundation manages many diverse projects such
as Wikipedia and Commons.

The voting phase lasts from 00:00 UTC May 17 to 23:59 UTC May 31. Click here to
vote. More information on the candidates and the elections can be found on the
2015 Board election page on Meta-Wiki.

On behalf of the Elections Committee, -Gregory Varnum (User:Varnent) Volunteer
Coordinator, 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee

Posted by the MediaWiki message delivery 17:20, 17 May 2015 (UTC) • Translate •
Get help

This is a message from the 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee.
Translations are available.

Voting has begun for eligible voters in the 2015 elections for the Wikimedia
Foundation Board of Trustees. Questions and discussion with the candidates for
the Board will continue during the voting.

The Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees is the ultimate governing authority
of the Wikimedia Foundation, a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization registered in
the United States. The Wikimedia Foundation manages many diverse projects such
as Wikipedia and Commons.

The voting phase lasts from 00:00 UTC May 17 to 23:59 UTC May 31. Click here to
vote. More information on the candidates and the elections can be found on the
2015 Board election page on Meta-Wiki.

On behalf of the Elections Committee, -Gregory Varnum (User:Varnent) Volunteer
Coordinator, 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee

Posted by the MediaWiki message delivery 17:20, 17 May 2015 (UTC) • Translate •
Get help

Wikipedia:Galicia 20 - 20 Challenge is a public writing competition which will
improve and translate this list of 20 really important articles into as many
languages as possible. Everybody can help in any language to collaborate on
writing and/or translating articles related to Galicia. To participate you just
need to sign up here. Thank you very much.--Breogan2008 (bicara) 9 Juni 2015
10.06 (UTC)

Hello, Content Translation has now been enabled as an opt-in beta feature on the
Buginese Wikipedia. To start translating:

Since this is the first time we have installed the tool on this Wikipedia, there
are chances that there may be some problems or service disruptions which we are
not yet aware of. We will be monitoring the usage to check for any failures or
issues, but please do let us know on the Content Translation talk page or
through Phabricator if you spot any problems that prevent you from using the
tool. For more information, please read the information available in the User
Guide. Our announcement is written only in English, and we would really
appreciate if this message can be translated to reach more users of this
Wikipedia. Thank you.--KartikMistry (bicara) 16 Juni 2015 16.00 (UTC)

My apologies for posting this message in English. Please help translate it if
you can.

The Wikimedia Foundation would like your feedback about how we can reimagine
Wikimedia Foundation grants, to better support people and ideas in your
Wikimedia project. Ways to participate:

(Opt-out Instructions) This message was sent by I JethroBT (WMF) through
MediaWiki message delivery. 19 Agustus 2015 00.03 (UTC)

Please help translate the statements on Meta Wiki. You can read more on the
Wikimedia blog.

My apologies for posting this message in English. Please help translate it if
you can.

Greetings! The Individual Engagement Grants program is accepting proposals until
September 29th to fund new tools, community-building processes, and other
experimental ideas that enhance the work of Wikimedia volunteers. Whether you
need a small or large amount of funds (up to $30,000 USD), Individual Engagement
Grants can support you and your team’s project development time in addition to
project expenses such as materials, travel, and rental space.

I JethroBT (WMF), Community Resources, Wikimedia Foundation. 4 September 2015
20.52 (UTC)

(Opt-out Instructions) This message was sent by I JethroBT (WMF) (talk) through
MediaWiki message delivery.

There is still one week left to submit Individual Engagement Grant (IEG)
proposals before the September 29th deadline. If you have ideas for new tools,
community-building processes, and other experimental projects that enhance the
work of Wikimedia volunteers, start your proposal today! Please encourage others
who have great ideas to apply as well. Support is available if you want help
turning your idea into a grant request.

There is still one week left to submit Individual Engagement Grant (IEG)
proposals before the September 29th deadline. If you have ideas for new tools,
community-building processes, and other experimental projects that enhance the
work of Wikimedia volunteers, start your proposal today! Please encourage others
who have great ideas to apply as well. Support is available if you want help
turning your idea into a grant request.

Last month, we asked for community feedback on a proposal to change the
structure of WMF grant programs. Thanks to the 200+ people who participated! A
report on what we learned and changed based on this consultation is now
available.

Come read about the findings and next steps as WMF’s Community Resources team
begins to implement changes based on your feedback. Your questions and comments
are welcome on the outcomes discussion page.

The Community Advocacy team the Wikimedia Foundation has opened a consultation
on the topic of harassment on Meta. The consultation period is intended to run
for one month from today, November 16, and end on December 17. Please share your
thoughts there on harassment-related issues facing our communities and potential
solutions. (Note: this consultation is not intended to evaluate specific cases
of harassment, but rather to discuss the problem of harassment itself.)

This is a message regarding the proposed 2015 Free Bassel banner. Translations
are available.

This is to inform all Wikimedia contributors that a straw poll seeking your
involvement has just been started on Meta-Wiki.

As some of your might be aware, a small group of Wikimedia volunteers have
proposed a banner campaign informing Wikipedia readers about the urgent
situation of our fellow Wikipedian, open source software developer and Creative
Commons activist, Bassel Khartabil. An exemplary banner and an explanatory page
have now been prepared, and translated into about half a dozen languages by
volunteer translators.

We are seeking your involvement to decide if the global Wikimedia community
approves starting a banner campaign asking Wikipedia readers to call on the
Syrian government to release Bassel from prison. We understand that a campaign
like this would be unprecedented in Wikipedia's history, which is why we're
seeking the widest possible consensus among the community.

Given Bassel's urgent situation and the resulting tight schedule, we ask
everyone to get involved with the poll and the discussion to the widest possible
extent, and to promote it among your communities as soon as possible.

(Apologies for writing in English; please kindly translate this message into
your own language.)

Posted by the MediaWiki message delivery 21:47, 25 November 2015 (UTC) •
Translate • Get help

Patrick Earley (WMF) via MediaWiki message delivery (bicara) 5 Januari 2016
01.49 (UTC)

Patrick Earley (WMF) via MediaWiki message delivery (bicara) 5 Januari 2016
02.49 (UTC)

Hello again. Please excuse the English. Please help translate to your language.
Terima kasih!

The visual editor is coming to all editors at this Wikipedia on Monday, 25
January. It allows people to edit Wikipedia articles as if they were using word
processing software.

You don't have to wait until the deployment to test it; you can test the visual
editor right now. To turn it on, select "Beta" in your preferences. Choose
"VisualEditor" and click save. When it is enabled, you will press the
"Padéccéng" button to edit an article in the new software. To use the wikitext
editor, you can press "Sunting sumber".

After the deployment, everyone will automatically have the option to use either
the visual editor or the current wikitext editor. For more information about how
to use the visual editor, see mw:Help:VisualEditor/User guide.

Your input is welcome (and greatly desired) at the Meta discussion, 2016
Strategy/Community consultation.

Apologies for English, where this is posted on a non-English project. We thought
it was more important to get the consultation translated as much as possible,
and good headway has been made there in some languages. There is still much to
do, however! We created m:2016 Strategy/Translations to try to help coordinate
what needs translation and what progress is being made. :)

I hope you'll join us! Maggie Dennis via MediaWiki message delivery (bicara) 18
Januari 2016 19.06 (UTC)

As some of you have noticed, this Wikipedia now has the visual editor
(VisualEditor) enabled for all users. (We planned to do this on 25 January 2016.
However, last week, there was an unusual problem with an upgrade to MediaWiki.
Thanks for your understanding.) There are now two tabs for editing: "Padéccéng"
and "Sunting sumber". Click "Padéccéng" to use the visual editor. Click "Sunting
sumber" to edit using wikitext markup.

All edits using the visual editor will be tagged with "Suntingan visual" in
recent changes, watchlists, and page histories. To access the User Guide for the
visual editor, click on the "(?)" icon in its toolbar. If you wish to disable
this new system, this can be done under "Editing" in your preferences.

Please let us know if you find any problems. You can report issues in
Phabricator, the new bug tracking system or on the central feedback page on
MediaWiki.org.

If you can translate from English into this wiki's language, or know anyone who
can, please follow the links on the "translation table" and help your community
get the best possible experience when it comes to interface messages and
documentation related to the visual editor. Please contact me directly whenever
you need help!

Greetings! The Individual Engagement Grants (IEG) program is accepting proposals
until April 12th to fund new tools, research, outreach efforts, and other
experiments that enhance the work of Wikimedia volunteers. Whether you need a
small or large amount of funds (up to $30,000 USD), IEGs can support you and
your team’s project development time in addition to project expenses such as
materials, travel, and rental space.

Hello, after six weeks of community discussion about Wikipedia to the Moon,
there are now 10 different proposals for content for the mission. Starting
today, you can vote for them on Meta-Wiki, and decide what we will work on: a
Wikipedia canon, different lists, the Moon in 300 languages, an astronomy
editathon, featured articles, articles about technology, endangered things, or
DNA-related topics. You can even vote against community involvement. Voting is
open until 24 June. Sorry that this message is again in English only, but we are
using village pumps to reach as many communities as possible, so that everyone
knows they can vote. Best, Moon team at Wikimedia Deutschland 10 Juni 2016 15.31
(UTC)

You may already have heard about Wikipedia to the Moon: A team of scientists
called the “PT Scientists” are going to send a space craft to the moon in 2017
and they want to take Wikipedia along with them. Because Wikipedia is so big, we
cannot send all of it to the moon. That is why the international
Wikipedia-community has voted to send all “Featured Articles and Featured Lists“
from all languages in Wikipedia.

“Featured Articles“ is a category in many language versions of Wikipedia that
collects the very best articles in that language. Your community does not
currently have a „Featured Articles“ category. Ideally, we want to take every
language on Wikipedia to the moon and we also want to take the best articles in
your language. That is why we would like you to tell us what the very best
articles in your language are.

Greetings! The Project Grants program is currently accepting proposals for
funding. There is just over a week left to submit before the October 11
deadline. If you have ideas for software, offline outreach, research, online
community organizing, or other projects that enhance the work of Wikimedia
volunteers, start your proposal today! Please encourage others who have great
ideas to apply as well. Support is available if you want help turning your idea
into a grant request.

Hello! I'm writing from the Wikimedia Foundation to invite you to give your
feedback on a proposed move from CC BY-SA 3.0 to a CC BY-SA 4.0 license across
all Wikimedia projects. The consultation will run from October 5 to November 8,
and we hope to receive a wide range of viewpoints and opinions. Please, if you
are interested, take part in the discussion on Meta-Wiki.

Apologies that this message is only in English. This message can be read and
translated in more languages here. Joe Sutherland (talk) 6 Oktober 2016 01.35
(UTC)

I apologise that this message is in English.
⧼Centralnotice-shared-help-translate⧽

Select strong passwords – eight or more characters long, and containing letters,
numbers, and punctuation. Joe Sutherland (Bicara) / MediaWiki message delivery
(bicara) 13 November 2016 23.59 (UTC)

Please accept my apologies - that first line should read "Help with
translations!". Joe Sutherland (WMF) (talk) / MediaWiki message delivery
(bicara) 14 November 2016 00.11 (UTC)

James Forrester (Product Manager, Editing department, Wikimedia Foundation) --14
Desember 2016 19.32 (UTC)



https://bug.wikipedia.org/wiki/Felis

Felis is a genus of cats in the family Felidae, including the familiar domestic
cat and its closest wild relatives. The wild species are distributed widely
across Europe, southern and central Asia, and Africa; the domestic cat has been
introduced worldwide.

Members of the genus Felis are all small felines, with a more or less close
resemblance to the domestic cat. The smallest species is the black-footed cat,
which may be less than Templat:Convert/cmTemplat:Convert/test/Aon in length,
while the largest is the jungle cat, which can reach
Templat:Convert/cmTemplat:Convert/test/Aon. They inhabit a range of different
habitats, from swampland to desert, and generally feed on small rodents,
supplementing their diets with birds and other small animals, depending on their
local environment.

The genus Felis is currently considered to consist of five living species,
although the domestic cat is sometimes considered a subspecies of F. silvestris.

The classification of the cat family Felidae has seen many permutations over the
years, and nearly all other species of the family were at one point placed in
the genus Felis.

Felis once contained most of the small cats, and at times contained a very large
number of species. In the 1940s, the British zoologist Reginald Innes Pocock
identified 40 taxa previously described as separate species as actually being
subspecies of Felis silvestris, thus greatly reducing the size of the genus.
Today, few of these subspecies are recognised as being distinct, while the
majority of species of small cats have been separated into their different
genera, such as Leopardus and Puma.

Pallas's cat has an especially complicated taxonomic history. The bloated genus
Felis was later split into many smaller genera, resulting in Pallas's cat being
reclassified as the only member of the genus Otocolobus. However, during the
late 20th century, it was considered to be closely related to the remaining
species of the genus Felis and was classified accordingly. Finally, recent
research has shown it to be closely related to both Felis and Prionailurus. As a
result, the genus Otocolobus has been resurrected and Pallas's cat has been
reclassified (again).



https://bug.wikipedia.org/wiki/NET.

NET. (singkatan dari News and Entertainment Television) adalah sebuah stasiun
televisi swasta terestrial nasional di Indonesia yang resmi diluncurkan pada 26
Mei 2013. NET. menggantikan siaran terestrial Spacetoon yang sebagian sahamnya
telah diambil alih oleh Indika Group. Berbeda dengan Spacetoon yang acaranya
ditujukan untuk anak-anak, program-program NET. ditujukan kepada keluarga dan
pemirsa muda.

Selain melalui jaringan terestrial, NET. juga menyiarkan kontennya melalui
saluran komunikasi lain seperti jejaring sosial dan YouTube.

Program Grand Launching NET. ditayangkan secara langsung pada tanggal 26 Mei
2013 pukul 19.00 WIB dan disiarkan secara streaming melalui Youtube dan website
resmi NET., dan acara Grand Launching ini menampilkan penyanyi internasional
seperti Carly Rae Jepsen, Taio Cruz dan juga didukung oleh beberapa artis dalam
negeri seperti Agnes Monica, Maudy Ayunda, Cherrybelle, Sm*sh, Noah, Raisa,
Kahitna, Dewa 19, Andien, Ungu, Reza Rahardian, Andi Rianto dan banyak lagi.

Pada tanggal 18 Mei 2014 NET. merayakan ulang tahun pertamanya yang bertajuk
NET. ONE (Indonesian Choice Awards 2014) dengan mengundang berbagai penyanyi
internasional seperti Far East Movement dan Ne-Yo.

Pada tanggal 24 Mei 2015, NET. merayakan ulang tahun keduanya dan mengundang
penyanyi internasional Demi Lovato & Karmin.

Pada tahun 2012, PT Net Mediatama Indonesia (NET.) ingin membangun sebuah
stasiun TV yang membawakan sebuah revolusi media yang maju dan lebih modern.
Pada pertengahan Maret 2013, PT Net Mediatama Indonesia mengakuisisi saham
kepemilikan dari PT Televisi Anak Spacetoon (Spacetoon) yang sebagian sahamnya
dialih oleh Indika Group sebesar 95% dari saham kepemilikan Spacetoon. Sesaat
setelah akuisisi saham kepemilikan Spacetoon ke NET., akhirnya pada Sabtu, 18
Mei 2013, siaran Spacetoon di jaringan terrestrial menghilang dan digantikan
oleh NET. yang memulai siaran perdananya dengan menggunakan frekuensi milik
Spacetoon di seluruh mantan jaringan frekuensi Spacetoon di Indonesia.

NET. memulai masa siaran percobaan selama satu pekan yang terhitung sejak Sabtu,
18 Mei 2013 sampai menjelang program Grand Launching Media Revolution yang
disiarkan secara live pada Minggu, 26 Mei 2013 pukul 19.00 WIB, di Jakarta
Convention Center, Senayan, Jakarta Pusat. Masa siaran percobaan NET. disiarkan
mulai dari pukul 05.00 WIB-24.00 WIB tanpa ada iklan komersial. Setelah selesai
masa siaran percobaan, jam tayang NET. diperpanjang dari pukul 04.00 WIB-02.00
WIB. Akan tetapi, khusus selama bulan suci Ramadhan siaran NET. menjadi 24 jam
nonstop.

Pada Februari 2015, diluncurkan The First Comedy Network yang merupakan stasiun
televisi kerjasama antara NET. dengan First Media. Stasiun televisi ini
menayangkan lima program komedi unggulan NET. yaitu The Comment, Bukan Sekedar
Wayang, Tetangga Masa Gitu?, Ini Talkshow dan Tonight Show.

Pada 3 April 2015, NET. secara resmi menjadi sponsor utama tim sepak bola
Persija Jakarta selama Liga QNB 2015. Sehari kemudian, tepatnya 4 April 2015,
NET. juga menjadi sponsor utama Persib Bandung.



https://bug.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fisika

Fisika maccucung gejala alang béla dék tuo a materi ri lingkup roang erenge
wettu. Fisikawan maccinagak sipak ri lanrek moncong, mulai partikel
submikroskopis béla mattanjak maneng materi (fisika partikel) gangka sipak
materi alang semesta, majjaji seddi kosmos.

Tassipolo sipak fisika éngka maneng sistem materi, kua hukum amaraddekeng
energi. Sipak kua iaé maderri riolli hukum fisika. Fisika maderri pangissengeng
pong baku, apak alamasia-sia pangissengeng alang laing (ᨅᨗᨕᨚᨒᨚᨁᨗ, ᨀᨗᨆᨗᨕ,
geologi, éréngé laing-laing) maccucungi jenis sistem materi tattentu béla
mattunruki hukum fisika. Akkalarudduseng ni, pangissengeng molekul éréngé sak
kimia béla ritanjak ni saisa kimia. Sipak molekul ritentui sipak seddi sak
kimia, béla géppa rimanessang pangissengeng fisika kua mekanika kuantum,
termodinamika éréngé elektromagnetika.

Fisika muannéng makkaikang rapek éngkalinga matematika. Teori fisika maéga
rinyatang ri notasi matematis, éréngé matematika béla ribuakang biasa na lebih
kompelek kega matematika béla ribuakang ri bidang sains laing na. mabbedang
pallawangeng fisika éréngé matematika, fisika makkaikang éngkalinga pemerian
lino material, kenneng matematika makkaikang éngkalinga pola-pola abstrak béla
dék pulana makkaikang éngkalinga lino material. Iakia, mabbedang éro dék pulana
rita muannéng.



https://bug.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pinisi

Pinisi yanaritu kappala layara tradisional has’na polé Indonésia, yappunnaéwi To
Ugi makkutopa To Mangkasara’ ri Sulawesi Maniang, hususna polé ri Wanua Bira,
Kecamatang Bonto Bahari, kabupaténg Bulukumba. Pinisi yaro sebenarna aseng
layara. Kappala yaë mappunnai duwa alliri layara poko sibawa pitu lampa layara,
yanaritu tellu ri cappa ri olo, duwa ri olo, sibawa duwa polé ri munri; biasana
ripaké untu’ marakka barang lintasa pulo. Duwa alliri layara poko yaro
ripattentukangngi 2 (read: duwa) kalima sahada’ sibalé’na pitu lampa layara
bettuanna jumla aya yamaneng sure Al-Fatihah. Pinisi yanaritu sirupa kappala
layara mappaké tanja layara sekunar sibawang duwa alliri sibawa pitu lampa
layara bettuanna yanaritu néné’ moyanna bangsa Indonésia weddingngi naccennéki
iyaréga nalaloi pitu tasi maloang ri linoé yaë.

Kappala aju Pinisi maitta senna’ni ripaké ri Indonésia, yanaritu wettu
mangngaba-aba ri olona, rekko ripérkirakangngi kappala Pinisi engkani compa
sébelunna taung 1500’na (baca: sisébbu lima ratu’na). Menuru’ arrukireng
Lontara’ I Babad La Lagaligo wettu aba’ maka 14 (baca: séppulo éppa), Pinisi
pammula riébbu’ olé Sawérigading, ana’ buranena datu’ Kerajaang Luwu untu’
mallayara ri tana’na Cinaë (Tiongkok) elo nalamara ana’ makkunrainna polé
[[Kerajaang|Kerajaang Cinaë (Tiongkok) riaséng Wé Cudai.

Sawérigading salama’i ri tana’na Cinaë (Tiongkok) sibawa naewai mabbaine Wé
Cudai. Puranna yaro, maitta na monro ri tana’na Cinaë (Tiongkok), Sawérigading
lisu i paimeng ri kamponna mappake Pinisi ri Luwu. Wettunna elo mattama ri
tasi’na Luwu, kappala’na rikénnai omba’ loppo nainappa kappala Pinisi yarodo
mapue tellu i sibawa mawangngi ri Wanua Ara, Wanua Tana Lemo sibawa Wanua Bira.
Pabbanua ritellue wanua yero nappa naebbui paimeng pue-pue kappala yerodo
mancaji lopi nainappa naperengi aséng Pinisi. Toa Ara yanaritu pakkebbu babuana
kappala ede, ri Wanua Tana Lemo kappala yerodo riraki i, sementara To Bira e
marrancang kappala yerodo mancaji Pinisi sibawa pitu layara’na riebbui pole
pappikkiri’na To Bira.

Engkato tau makkedda, aseng Pinisi yaë rialai polé aseng tau, yanaritu asengna
‘‘‘Pinisi’’’. Engka séddi wettu, yaro tauwe mallayara nalaloi wiring pantai
Wanua Bira. Yaro mitai bangkai kappala ri sé’dena tasie kero, nainappa aléna
napudangi sala sé’di pajokkai kappala ë yaro ba’wa layaraë yero wedding mupa
ripakessingi. Wettunna yéro, To Birae mappikkiri sibawa marrancang layara sesuai
agi-agi weddingngé napigau’. Pada wettunna puraë yero mancajini layara Pinisi
padaé makkokoé. Polé pappudanna tauwé yero, maka Pabbanua Bira naperéngngi
layaraë yero aseng Pinisi.

Upacara makkoroba untu’ makébbu Kappala Pinisi yanaritu sala sé’di ciri has’na
Pinisi rikébbu. Yamaneng pakkébbu kappala tradisional yae, yanaritu: To Ara, To
Tana Lémo, sibawa To Bira, napigaui tradisi néné’ moyanna. Upacara ritual yaédé
ritandai proses makkébbu kappala yaë. Esso mello untu’ massappa aju biasana esso
maka lima sibawa maka pitu ri ulengngé. Angka 5 (read: lima), bettuanna yanaritu
naparilimai dallé’na. Sibalé’na angka 7 (read: pitu), betuanna yanaritu
natujuangngi dallé’na. Puranna runtu’ esso mello, nainappa kepala tukang
riasengngé ‘‘punggawa’’ napimpingngi assapparangngé.

Sebelumnna poppongngé ritubbang, ripigau’i upacara untu’ mabbuang roh-roh
penghunina ajuë yero. Sikaju manu’ riébbui korroba untu’ ripereng roh-roh ë.
Jenisi pong ritubbangngé yero ripanessai sesuai pungsi ajuë yero. Pappolongéng
aju untu’ papeng risesuaikanngi ara ura ajuë tujuanna supaya weddingngi rijaming
kejje’na. Puranna yamaneng bahanna ajuë engka, nainappa rikumpulu untu’ riessoi.

Mappasang papeng pajeppi balo’ waji’i risertai Upacara ‘‘Kalébiséang’’. Upacara
‘‘Anjarreki’’, yanaritu untu’ mappamasse balo’, nappa risusungi papeng polé ri
awa dengang ukureng lebba’na mabiccu gangkennna ri wawo dengang ukureng malebba.
Jumlana yamaneng papeng dasara’na untu’ Kappala Pinisi yanaritu 126 (read:
siratu duwa pulo enneng) lampa. Puranna papeng teras risusung, nainappa ripasang
munri’na kappala ë, yanaritu tarong mattaro setir bagiang ri awa.

Narékko babuana kappala ëdé purani rijama, nainappa risambung jama-jamang
‘‘A’panisi’’, yanaritu mappattama pa’jampe risebbo-sebbo’na papeng ëdé. Untu’
pakejjeki sambungang papeng ëdé mancaji makejje, ripakéi jenis uli Pong Barru’.
Puranna yero, majjama ‘‘Alepa’’, yanaritu maddampulu. Bahang damppulu riébbui
polé campurang kapuru sibawa minya’ kaluku. Campurang yero rigaru-garui
gangkenna 12 (read: seppulo duwa) jang, rijamai pali céddé 6 (read: enneng) tau.
Untu’ kappala 100 (read: siratu) tong, riperlukangngi 20 (read: duwappulo) kg
damppulu babuana kappala ëdé. Puranna yero, nainappa ma’goso’ damppulu mappaké
uli kaliki.

Peroses terahir tépuna Pinisi, yanaritu riluncurékéngngi. Upacara Assalamakéng
ripigau’si. Luncurékéng kappala ripammulai denganng upacara ada’ ‘‘Appasili’’,
yanaritu ritual mattujuang untu’ mattola bala’. Allengkapang upacara yanaritu
sisio’ daung maddupa rupang rangenna, iyanaritu Daung Sidinging, Daung|Daung
Sinrolo]], Daung Taha Tinappasa, Daung Taha Siri’, sibawa Daung Panno-Panno
risio sibawang Pimping. Daung-daung yero ripattamai ri laleng waé ëdé nainappa
ripeccikangngi dengang cara rikapé-kapé ri sekitar’na kappala ëdé. Husus kappala
mappunnai tane kurang 100 (read: siratu) tong, biasana riappoloangngi sikaju
bémbé. Sibalé’na husus kappala mappunnai tane lebbi 100 (read: siratu) tong,
riappoloangngi sikaju sapi. Puranna riappoloang, ajé ri olo bémbé iyaréga sapi ë
ripolo bagiang uttu’na mariawa rigattung ri anjungang kappala ëdé sibalé’na ajé
ri munrinna ri gattung ri munrinna Kappala Pinisi ë, bettuanna malomoi matu
jokka’na mappadai jokka’na olokolo biasaé. Puranna yero engka Upacara
‘‘Ammossi’’, yanaritu Upacara Pabbéréang pusa’ ri pattenganna balo’ kappala
nainappa kappala ë yero rirui’i ko tasi’é. Pabbéréang pusa’ yaë istilana
ricocokangngi polé ripaddisengngeng ë narékko kappala riangga ana’, punggawa
iyarega Panrita Lopi naiyakiya narekko risesuaikangngi polé ripaddisengngeng ë,
maka Upacara ‘‘Ammossi’’ istilana simbolo mappolo tulu posi ana’ biccu rékko
nappai riammanakang. Rékko Pinisi purani mawang ri tasi’é, nappani ripasangi
layara sibawa duwa alliri. Layara’na yamaneng pitu. Kappala barué ripessu
biasana pura sia’ni ripajokka polé awa’na. Pammessukeng kappala ripigau’i wettu
waé tasi’é monang sibawa mataessoé ménré. Punggawa sebagai pemimping upacara
yero tudangngi ri kirinna balo’é. Do’a iréga baca-baca ribacakangngi.

Engka maddupa rupang jenisi Kappala Pinisi, naiyakiya umunna Kappala Pinisi
engka 2 (read: duwa) jenisi:

Éra globalisasi makkokoé, Pinisi sebagai kappala barang marruba pungsi mancaji
Kappala Pesiar canggi komersial makkutopa éspédisi riwajakangngi polé pappunna
perusaha’ang lokala sibawa saliweng negara, dengang bagiang-bagiang canggi
sibawa rilengkapi ala’-ala’ pellung, acculé-culéng waé untu’ wisata tasi’ sibawa
awa’ tallati sibawang ripakejjeki té’ni modéreng. Sala sé’di conto’na Kappala
Pesiar canggi mabaru, yanaritu silolo’na mallayara mappaké bandéra.

Kappala Pinisi yaro todo mancaji lambang untu’ gerakang WWF, yanaritu proyé
péléstariang balé hiu polé WWF, makkutoparӧ ripakéi olé perusaha’ang riisseng ri
Indonésia, yanaritu Bang BNI.



https://bug.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daftar_stasiun_televisi_di_Indonesia

Sejak berdirinya TVRI pada 1962, hingga 27 tahun setelah berdirinya TVRI,
penduduk Indonesia hanya bisa menyaksikan satu saluran televisi saja. Namun pada
tahun 1989, Pemerintah akhirnya mengizinkan RCTI sebagai stasiun televisi swasta
pertama di Indonesia, meski hanya penduduk yang mempunyai antena parabola dan
dekoder yang dapat menyaksikan RCTI, walaupun pada akhirnya dibuka untuk
masyarakat mulai tanggal 21 Maret 1992 di Bandung. Berikut ini adalah daftar
stasiun televisi di Indonesia.

Berikut adalah stasiun televisi siaran gratis di Indonesia yang salurannya dapat
ditangkap melalui antena UHF/VHF (terestrial). Sejak berlakunya Undang-Undang
Nomor 32 Tahun 2002 tentang Penyiaran, izin penyelenggaraan siaran televisi
melalui antena UHF/VHF (terestrial) yang dikeluarkan hanyalah untuk stasiun
televisi lokal. Stasiun televisi yang ingin melakukan siaran nasional harus
melakukan siaran berjaringan antar beberapa stasiun televisi lokal.

Templat:Lihatpula Sejak berlakunya Undang-Undang Nomor 32 Tahun 2002 tentang
Penyiaran, telah terdapat beberapa stasiun televisi yang melakukan siaran
berjaringan dengan stasiun-stasiun televisi lokal di berbagai daerah.

Selain sistem analog, di Indonesia juga banyak digunakan sistem penyiaran
melalui satelit yang hanya dapat ditangkap dengan menggunakan antena parabola.
Awalnya sistem ini menggunakan antena parabola berukuran besar. Terdapat tiga
satelit Indonesia yang memiliki prioritas orbit di atas Indonesia, yaitu
Telkom-1, Telkom-2 dan Palapa D. Berikut ini adalah stasiun televisi siaran
gratis di Indonesia yang disiarkan melalui sistem ini: Templat:Col

Berikut adalah stasiun televisi berlangganan di Indonesia yang salurannya hanya
dapat ditangkap dengan alat penerima tertentu (receiver/decoder) melalui
satelit, kabel, atau terestrial. Stasiun televisi berlangganan dapat memiliki
lebih dari satu saluran. Templat:Col

Berikut adalah saluran televisi Indonesia yang hanya tersedia melalui operator
televisi berlangganan tertentu. Templat:Col



https://bug.wikipedia.org/wiki/Valeuil

Il club dei Taurinorum è un club dilettantistico nato a Torino il 7 ottobre
2011. Le partite casalinghe della squadra vengono giocate nel campo a 7 dello
Sporting di Torino. Prima, tutte le partite casalinghe venivano giocate nel
campo a 5 del centro sportivo "Golden Goal". La prima maglia è arancione con con
una "V" nera sul petto, i pantaloncini neri e i calzettoni arancioneri. Il
numero e il nome sulla maglia si trovano sulla schiena e sono scritti in nero,
mentre sui pantaloncini è scritto sulla coscia sinistra in bianco. Il 14/3/2013
la squadra ha potuto ufficializzare l'arrivo di tre nuovi giocatori; Carlo
Romagnolo, Eugenio Ajassa (detto la talpa), e Davide Blanchetti. Sabato
23/11/2013 la squadra ha disputato il suo primo torneo ufficiale, arrivando
secondi dopo aver perso la finale per 4-3.

Ci sono inoltre dei membri "ad honorem" che sono: Sergio Fileccia, Edoardo
Lardizzone, Ludovico Bossi, Matteo Giordano, Enrico Montaldo, Gabriele Brenco e
Giulio Rigotti, che o facevano parte della squadra o hanno giocato abbastanza
partite per meritarsi questo titolo



https://bug.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rezlan_Ishar_Jenie

Drs. Rezlan Ishar Jenie (Templat:Lahirmati) adalah seorang diplomat Indonesia.
Sejak tahun 2010, ia menjabat sebagai Duta Besar Luar Biasa dan Berkuasa Penuh
Republik Indonesia untuk Perancis merangkap Kepangeranan Monako dan Kepangeranan
Andorra serta UNESCO. Sebelumnya, ia menjabat Direktur Jenderal Multilateral
pada Kementerian Luar Negeri RI.

Selama kariernya, Rezlan Ishar Jenie pernah bertugas di Perwakilan Tetap
Republik Indonesia (PTRI) di Jenewa, Swiss (1984-1988), PTRI New York
(1991-1996) dan Kepala Kantor Urusan Kepentingan RI di Lisabon, Portugal
(1999-2000), kemudian menjadi Direktur Amerika (2000-2002). Sejak 31 Maret 2004
sampai 28 April 2007 ia menjadi Duta Besar RI untuk PBB di New York merangkap
Bahama, Jamaika, Guatemala, dan Nikaragua menggantikan Makmur Widodo.

Rezlan Ishar Jenie merupakan seorang diplomat karier yang memulai kariernya di
Departemen Luar Negeri sejak tahun 1981.

Rezlan menikah dengan seorang wanita bernama Sally Yukari dan telah dikaruniai
dua orang anak, yakni Anggi Sazika Jenie dan Ken Yudistira Jenie. Rezlan Ishar
Jenie lahir dari pasangan Chailan Sjamsoe dengan Adlinsjah Jenie asal Pariaman,
Sumatera Barat. Ia adalah anak pertama dari lima bersaudara.

Rezlan Ishar Jenie merupakan salah seorang keturunan dari keluarga besar
"JENIE". Diantara beberapa orang kerabatnya seperti sepasang kembar, Umar
Anggara Jenie, Said Djauharsyah Jenie dan ayahnya sendiri, Adlinsjah Jenie.

Templat:S-start Templat:S-gov Templat:Kotak suksesi Templat:Kotak suksesi
Templat:Kotak suksesi Templat:Kotak selesai



https://bug.wikipedia.org/wiki/PL_Kyodan

PL Kyodan atawa Gereja Kabébasan Sampurna nyaéta ageman internasional anu
ngembang ti kabudayaan Buddhis Zen Jepang dina mimiti abad ka-20. PL ngajarkeun
yén "Hirup nyaéta seni." Manusa dilahirkan pikeun ngungkabkeun kapribadian
maranéhanana anu unik dina sagala rupa hal anu dipigawé ku manéhna - "pikeun
nyieun seni". Pikeun mantuan maranéhanana dina ngabenerkeun kahirupan
maranéhanana sarta nungkulan kasusah kawas panyakit, kemalangan, rasa gering,
jsb., para pangagemna diajarkeun naha maranéhanana miboga masalah ieu sarta
ditungtun dina memecahkannya ku Patriarkh (Oshieoya-sama) sarta para panditanya.
PL henteu miboga kitab suci (kawas Alkitab atawa Al Qur'an), tapi, maranéhanana
miboga 21 Prinsip PL sarta 21 Asas PL anu diwahyukeun ku para Pangadeg Gareja
ieu.

Kiwari jumplukan ieu nglaim miboga leuwih ti 3 juta pamilu di sakumna dunya.
Lolobana garejana aya di Jepang, tapi alatan pagawéan misi anu aktip dina warsih
1960-an, PL nangtung di Amérika Kidul sarta Amérika Sarikat ogé. Kiwari garejana
aya ogé di Kanada, Brasil, Argentina, Paraguay sarta Peru. Puseurna di Oseania
didirikan dina warsih 1990-an di Brisbane, Australia. Komunitas-komunitasnya anu
leutik ogé aya di Éropa, hususna di Perancis, Portugal, sarta Hongaria.



