https://ik.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia%3aQargi

Hallo, my name is Anastasiya Lvova, I'm "duty" in Connectivity project. The
essence of the "Connectivity" project is to study and enhance the coherence of
Wikipedia, or, in other words, to improve hypertext navigation between articles.
The project deals with deadends, isolated articles, non-categorized articles,
transitivity of the category tree, etc.

We want to work with your language version, but we need configured
MediaWiki:Disambiguationspage for it (with direct links to template namespace
pages, for example,
ru:MediaWiki:Disambiguationspage/de:MediaWiki:Disambiguationspage/fr:MediaWiki:D
isambiguationspage). Is it possible to set it up for our usage?

Dear community. I am writing to you to promote a special wiki called Betawiki.
This wiki facilitates the localisation (l10n) of the MediaWiki interface. You
may have changed many messages here to use your language in the interface, but
if you would log in to for example the Japanese language Wiktionary, you would
not be able to use the interface as well translated as here. In fact, of 1,762
messages in the core of MediaWiki, 0.23% of the messages have been translated.
Betawiki also supports the translation of messages for 126 extensions, with
2,174 messages. Many of them are used in WMF projects and they are vital for
understanding the wiki. Currently 0.00% of the WMF extension messages have been
translated. Translators for over 90 languages contribute their work to MediaWiki
this way every month.

If you wish to contribute to better support of your language in MediaWiki, as
well as for many MediaWiki extensions, please visit Betawiki, create an account
and request translator privileges. You can see the current status of
localisation of your language on MediaWiki.org and do not forget to get in touch
with others that may already be working on your language on Betawiki.

If you have any further questions, please let me know on my talk page on
Betawiki. We will try and assist you as much as possible, for example by
importing all messages from a local wiki for you to start with, if you so
desire.

You can also find us on the Freenode IRC network in the channel #mediawiki-i18n
where we will be happy to help you get started.

Thank you very much for your attention and I do hope to see some of you on
Betawiki soon! Thanks, Malafaya@Betawiki 17:50, 5 February 2008 (UTC)

Could someone be so kind and move my contribution to your "village pump" and
also, could someone please add a link to your village pump on meta? Thanks,
Malafaya@Betawiki 17:50, 5 February 2008 (UTC)

The Wikimedia Foundation recently updated the official Wikipedia globe. We
realize that a lot of projects have never had a localized logo in their native
language, so we are making sure that we create logos for every Wikipedia project
that we have. The only issue is: we can't figure out what should be on your
localized logo. :-)

Please put the translation on my Meta talk page. Thank you! Cbrown1023
discussion 00:50, 25 May 2010 (UTC)

The Catalan-speaking world... Want to find out more? From March 16 to April 15
we will organise the Catalan Culture Challenge, a Wikipedia editing contest in
which victory will go to those who start and improve the greatest number of
articles about 50 key figures of Catalan culture. You can take part by creating
or expanding articles on these people in your native language (or any other one
you speak). It would be lovely to have you on board. :-)

There is a current discussion on German Wikipedia on a decision of Asaf Bartov,
Head of WMF Grants and Global South Partnerships, Wikimedia Foundation, who
rejected a request for funding a proposal from wikipedians from eowiki one year
ago with the explanation the existence, cultivation, and growth of the Esperanto
Wikipedia does not advance our educational mission. No one needs free knowledge
in Esperanto. On meta there has also started a discussion about that decision.
--Holder (talk) 10:03, 5 Suvluġvik 2014 (UTC)

Hello and sorry for writing in English. Can anyone help me translate a small
article (2 paragraphs) from English to your language and create the article in
your wiki? Please, fell free to answer in my talk page in your wiki anytime.
Thanks! Xaris333 (talk) 23:42, 12 Tiŋŋivik 2014 (UTC)

Paġlagivsi! I hereby put forth discussion on my request to be made an
administrator for the Iñupiaq Wikipedia, which is seriously out of date, the
main page especially needs some work. I am not a native speaker but I grew up
around the language and I'm am learning more every day. Please help me
revitalize this page by supporting me in gaining administrator rights to this
page. Quyanaqpak Naulagmi (talk) 00:49, 25 October 2014

Hello, Dear wikipedians. I invite you to edit and improve this article and to
add information about your and other country.--Kaiyr (talk) 11:45, 31 Nuliaġvik
2014 (UTC)

You may already have heard about Wikipedia to the Moon: A team of scientists
called the “PT Scientists” are going to send a space craft to the moon in 2017
and they want to take Wikipedia along with them. Because Wikipedia is so big, we
cannot send all of it to the moon. That is why the international
Wikipedia-community has voted to send all “Featured Articles and Featured Lists“
from all languages in Wikipedia.

“Featured Articles“ is a category in many language versions of Wikipedia that
collects the very best articles in that language. Your community does not
currently have a „Featured Articles“ category. Ideally, we want to take every
language on Wikipedia to the moon and we also want to take the best articles in
your language. That is why we would like you to tell us what the very best
articles in your language are.

Paġlagivsi! I hereby put forth discussion on my request to be made an
administrator again for the Iñupiaq Wikipedia, which is seriously out of date,
the main page especially needs some work. I am not a native speaker but I grew
up around the language and I'm am learning more every day. Please help me
revitalize this page by supporting me in gaining administrator rights to this
page. Quyanaqpak --Naulagmi (talk) 10:39, 5 Paniqsiivik 2017 (UTC)



https://ik.wikipedia.org/wiki/Embassy

The LocalisationUpdate extension is now enabled for all Wikimedia projects. From
now on new localisations that become available in SVN will become available to
your project within 24 hours. Your localisations get into SVN from
translatewiki.net typically within a day and at worst in two days. This is a
huge improvement from the old practice where the localisations became available
with new software. This could take weeks, even months.

Local messages have an impact on the performance of our system. It is best when
messages are as much as possible part of the system messages. In order to remove
unnecessary duplication, all the messages that have a local localisation and are
exactly the same as the system message will be removed. What we ask you to do is
to compare and proof read the messages in translatewiki.net and the local
messages. You can then either remove local messages when the translatewiki.net
message is to be preferred or, you can update the message at translatewiki.net.

The best way to answer the first question is to visit the translatewiki.net.
Change the language to your language, select the “vector” skin and add the
advanced tool bar in in the preferences and check out the new functionality. And
make some changes in your user page. When there is a need to improve on the
localisation, please make the necessary changess . It should update your
localisation straight away. We would like you to report each issue individually
at http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Usability_issues .

We would like you to report each issue individually at
http://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Language_issues . The issues you raise will all
be assessed. It is important to keep each issue separate, because this will make
it easier to understand the issues and find solutions.

PS This text has been approved by Naoko, Brion and Siebrand. Thanks, GerardM
08:01, 30 September 2009 (UTC)



