https://ks.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia%3a%DA%86%D9%88%DA%A9

Hello, I have proposed myself to becoming newly administrator here:
Wikipedia:Sysops. Unfortunately it seems as there is no any community here, so I
think there might be no reply, but I'll wait your response Sir. Kindly take
notice of the page and vote according your opinion. In conformation with outcome
of the vote, will be made or will not be made new administrator presently.
Thanks! --خَرگوش ٢٠:٣٦, ٢٤ October ٢٠١١ (UTC)

I apologize that you are receiving this message in English. Please help
translate it.

The Wikimedia Foundation is discussing changes to its Terms of Use. The
discussion can be found at Talk:Terms of use. Everyone is invited to join in.
Because the new version of Terms of use is not in final form, we are not able to
present official translations of it. Volunteers are welcome to translate it, as
German volunteers have done at m:Terms of use/de, but we ask that you note at
the top that the translation is unofficial and may become outdated as the
English version is changed. The translation request can be found at
m:Translation requests/WMF/Terms of Use 2 -- Maggie Dennis, Community Liaison
٠١:٠٠, ٢٧ October ٢٠١١ (UTC)

I have found a site that will allow the Pandits to use this site by converting
the script. Please place the link on the front page.
http://uh.learnpunjabi.org/urltrans.aspx?look=http://ks.wikipedia.org/wiki/%DA%A
F%D9%8E%D8%B1%D9%95 I am sure that the Kashmiri Wikipedia will be one of the
best with your help.

The Devanagari Kashmiri wiki is now in testing here. --Farah Desai KhanTalk
١١:٥٧, ١ October ٢٠١٢ (UTC) How Can I Do Contribution to the Devanagari?

I apologize that you are receiving this message in English. Please help
translate it.

The Wikimedia Foundation is seeking Community Fellows and project ideas for the
Community Fellowship Program. A Fellowship is a temporary position at the
Wikimedia Foundation in order to work on a specific project or set of projects.
Submissions for 2012 are encouraged to focus on the theme of improving editor
retention and increasing participation in Wikimedia projects. If interested,
please submit a project idea or apply to be a fellow by January 15, 2012. Please
visit https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Wikimedia_Fellowships for more
information.

--Siko Bouterse, Head of Community Fellowships, Wikimedia Foundation ٠٢:٥٢, ٢٢
ڈیٚسَمبَر ٢٠١١ (UTC)

I have sent a detailed note to the various local language and India community
mailing list summarizing my discussions with various Indic editors. In this
note, I have also shared my perspectives on a series of issues related to
community building (keeping existing editors, welcoming back old editors,
attracting newbies, improving outreach, encouraging communication, collaborating
on articles, and celebrating success), project quality (discouraging the use of
bots for content creation and being more selective in adoption of English
wikipedia policies) as well as on readership. It is a long post but I request
you to go through this page in meta wiki. Please share your comments and
feedback as a reply below this, or on the meta talk page of my post, or directly
to me. I am really keen on hearing from as many of you as I can - and to start
working together. --Shiju ٠٧:٢٢, ٢٦ ڈیٚسَمبَر ٢٠١١ (UTC)

Wikimedia Foundation is getting ready to push out 1.19 to all the WMF-hosted
wikis. As we finish wrapping up our code review, you can test the new version
right now on beta.wmflabs.org. For more information, please read the release
notes or the start of the final announcement.

Report any problems on the labs beta wiki and we'll work to address them before
they software is released to the production wikis.

Note that this cluster does have SUL but it is not integrated with SUL in
production, so you'll need to create another account. You should avoid using the
same password as you use here. — Global message delivery ١٦:٢٠, ١٥ January ٢٠١٢
(UTC)

The Wikimedia Foundation has brought together a new team of developers who are
dedicated to language support. This team is to support all the languages and
consequently it is not realistic to expect that the team members can provide
proper support for your language. It is for this reason that we are looking for
volunteers who will make up a language support team.

As much of the activity will be concentrated on translatewiki.net, it will be a
plus when team members know how to localise at translatewiki.net. Thanks,
Gmeijssen ٠٦:٤٤, ٢٠ January ٢٠١٢ (UTC)

(Apologies if this message isn't in your language.) The Wikimedia Foundation is
planning to upgrade MediaWiki (the software powering this wiki) to its latest
version this month. You can help to test it before it is enabled, to avoid
disruption and breakage. More information is available in the full announcement.
Thank you for your understanding.

Guillaume Paumier, via the Global message delivery system (wrong page? You can
fix it.). ١٥:٠٨, ١٢ فرؤری ٢٠١٢ (UTC)

(Apologies if this message isn't in your language. Please consider translating
it, as well as the full version of this announcement on Meta)

The Wikimedia Foundation is planning to do limited testing of IPv6 on June 2-3.
If there are not too many problems, we may fully enable IPv6 on World IPv6 day
(June 6), and keep it enabled.

Read the full version of this announcement on how to test the behavior of IPv6
with various tools and how to leave bug reports, and to find a fuller analysis
of the implications of the IPv6 migration.

--Erik Möller, VP of Engineering and Product Development, Wikimedia Foundation
٠١:٠٩, ٢ جوٗن ٢٠١٢ (UTC)

Wikimedia Commons is happy to announce that the 2011 Picture of the Year
competition is now open. We are interested in your opinion as to which images
qualify to be the Picture of the Year 2011. Any user registered at Commons or a
Wikimedia wiki SUL-related to Commons with more than 75 edits before 1 April
2012 (UTC) is welcome to vote and, of course everyone is welcome to view!

About 600 of the best of Wikimedia Common's photos, animations, movies and
graphics were chosen –by the international Wikimedia Commons community– out of
12 million files during 2011 and are now called Featured Pictures.

From professional animal and plant shots to breathtaking panoramas and skylines,
restorations of historically relevant images, images portraying the world's best
architecture, maps, emblems, diagrams created with the most modern technology,
and impressive human portraits, Commons Features Pictures of all flavors.

See you on Commons! --Picture of the Year 2011 Committee ١٨:٢٦, ٥ جوٗن ٢٠١٢
(UTC)

(Apologies if this message isn't in your language. Please consider translating
it)

As many of you are aware, the Wikimedia Board of Trustees recently initiated
important changes in the way that money is being distributed within the
Wikimedia movement. As part of this, a new community-led "Funds Dissemination
Committee" (FDC) is currently being set up. Already in 2012-13, its
recommendations will guide the decisions about the distribution of over 10
million US dollars among the Foundation, chapters and other eligible entities.

Now, seven capable, knowledgeable and trustworthy community members are sought
to volunteer on the initial Funds Dissemination Committee. It is expected to
take up its work in September. In addition, a community member is sought to be
the Ombudsperson for the FDC process. If you are interested in joining the
committee, read the call for volunteers. Nominations are planned to close on
August 15.

--Anasuya Sengupta, Director of Global Learning and Grantmaking, Wikimedia
Foundation ٢٠:١٣, ١٩ July ٢٠١٢ (UTC)

You might also be interested in the idea to create a central Wikipedia Library
where approved editors would have access to all participating resource donors.
Add your feedback to the Community Fellowship proposal. Apologies for the
English message (translate here). Go sign up :) --Ocaasi (talk) ٠٢:١٧, ١٦ اَگست
٢٠١٢ (UTC)

I apologize for addressing you in English. I would be grateful if you could
translate this message into your language.

The Wikimedia Foundation is conducting a request for comment on a proposed
program that could provide legal assistance to users in specific support roles
who are named in a legal complaint as a defendant because of those roles. We
wanted to be sure that your community was aware of this discussion and would
have a chance to participate in that discussion.

If this page is not the best place to publicize this request for comment, please
help spread the word to those who may be interested in participating. (If you'd
like to help translating the "request for comment", program policy or other
pages into your language and don't know how the translation system works, please
come by my user talk page at m:User talk:Mdennis (WMF). I'll be happy to assist
or to connect you with a volunteer who can assist.)

As some of you might already have heard Wikimedia Deutschland is working on a
new Wikimedia project. It is called m:Wikidata. The goal of Wikidata is to
become a central data repository for the Wikipedias, its sister projects and the
world. In the future it will hold data like the number of inhabitants of a
country, the date of birth of a famous person or the length of a river. These
can then be used in all Wikimedia projects and outside of them.

It'd be great if you could join us, test the demo version, provide feedback and
take part in the development of Wikidata. You can find all the relevant
information including an FAQ and sign-up links for our on-wiki newsletter on the
Wikidata page on Meta.

For further discussions please use this talk page (if you are uncomfortable
writing in English you can also write in your native language there) or point me
to the place where your discussion is happening so I can answer there.

Why does this wiki use Eastern Arabic numerals, Just as a notification to the
passing readers and possible community that the Eastern Arabic numerals will
have to change to the Western Arabic numerals (International), even the Arabic
and Urdu wikipedia do not use the Eastern Arab numerals, they use the Western
Arabic numerals which I would believe is the best for this wiki too. --فرح
دیسائیبَحَژ ٠٩:٢٩, ٢٢ نَوَمبَر ٢٠١٢ (UTC)

The only pre-requisite is for the volunteer to actually live in the country and
to have access to at least one donation method that we offer for that country
(mainly credit/debit card, but also real-time banking like IDEAL, E-wallets,
etc...) so we can do a live test and see if the donation goes through. All
volunteers will be reimbursed of the donations that eventually succeed (and they
will be low amounts, like 1-2 dollars)

(Apologies if this message isn't in your language.) Next week, the Wikimedia
Foundation will transition its main technical operations to a new data center in
Ashburn, Virginia, USA. This is intended to improve the technical performance
and reliability of all Wikimedia sites, including this wiki. There will be some
times when the site will be in read-only mode, and there may be full outages;
the current target windows for the migration are January 22nd, 23rd and 24th,
2013, from 17:00 to 01:00 UTC (see other timezones on timeanddate.com). More
information is available in the full announcement.

If you would like to stay informed of future technical upgrades, consider
becoming a Tech ambassador and joining the ambassadors mailing list. You will be
able to help your fellow Wikimedians have a voice in technical discussions and
be notified of important decisions.

Guillaume Paumier, via the Global message delivery system (wrong page? You can
fix it.). ١٥:٢٧, ١٩ January ٢٠١٣ (UTC)

Wikimedia Commons celebrates our featured images of 2012 with this contest. Your
votes decide the Picture of the Year, so remember to vote in the first round by
January 30, 2013.

This message was delivered based on m:Distribution list/Global message delivery.
Translation fetched from: commons:Commons:Picture of the
Year/2012/Translations/Village Pump/en -- Rillke (talk) ٢٣:٥٤, ٢٢ January ٢٠١٣
(UTC)

Wikidata has been in development for a few months now. It is now time for the
roll-out of the first part of it on your Wikipedia. Phase 1 is the support for
the management of language links. It is already being used on the Hungarian,
Hebrew, Italian and English Wikipedias. The next step is to enable the extension
on all other Wikipedias. We have currently planned this for March 6.

Editors on en:wp have created a great page with all the necessary information
for editors and there is also an FAQ for this deployment. Please ask questions
you might have on the FAQ’s discussion page.

To stay up-to-date on everything happening around Wikidata please subscribe to
the newsletter that is delivered weekly to subscribed user’s talk pages. You can
see previous editions here.

Sorry for writing in English. I hope someone can translate this locally. If you
understand German better than English you can have a look at the announcement on
de:Wikipedia:Kurier.

As I annonced 2 weeks ago, Wikidata phase 1 (language links) has been deployed
here today. Language links in the sidebar are coming from Wikidata in addition
to the ones in the wiki text. To edit them, scroll to the bottom of the language
links, and click edit. You no longer need to maintain these links by hand in the
wiki text of the article.

Where can I find more information and ask questions? Editors on en:wp have
created a great page with all the necessary information for editors and there is
also an FAQ for this deployment. It'd be great if you could bring this to this
wiki if that has not already happened. Please ask questions you might have on
the FAQ’s discussion page.

I want to be kept up to date about Wikidata To stay up-to-date on everything
happening around Wikidata please subscribe to the newsletter that is delivered
weekly to subscribed user’s talk pages.

(Please consider translating this message for the benefit of your fellow
Wikimedians)

Greetings. As you might have seen on the Wikimedia tech blog or the tech
ambassadors list, a new functionality called "Lua" is being enabled on all
Wikimedia sites today. Lua is a scripting language that enables you to write
faster and more powerful MediaWiki templates.

If you have questions about how to convert existing templates to Lua (or how to
create new ones), we'll be holding two support sessions on IRC next week: one on
Wednesday (for Oceania, Asia & America) and one on Friday (for Europe, Africa &
America); see m:IRC office hours for the details. If you can't make it, you can
also get help at mw:Talk:Lua scripting.

If you'd like to learn about this kind of events earlier in advance, consider
becoming a Tech ambassador by subscribing to the mailing list. You will also be
able to help your fellow Wikimedians have a voice in technical discussions and
be notified of important decisions.

Guillaume Paumier, via the Global message delivery system. ٢٠:٠٤, ١٣ March ٢٠١٣
(UTC) (wrong page? You can fix it.)

Sorry for writing in English. I hope someone can translate this. If you
understand German better than English you can have a look at the announcement on
de:Wikipedia:Kurier.

A while ago the first phase of Wikidata was enabled on this Wikipedia. This
means you are getting the language links in each article from Wikidata. It is
soon time to enable the second phase of Wikidata (infoboxes) here. We have
already done this on the [first 11 Wikipedias] (it, he, hu, ru, tr, uk, uz, hr,
bs, sr, sh) and things are looking good. The next step is English Wikipedia.
This is planned for April 8. If everything works out fine we will deploy on all
remaining Wikipedias on April 10. I will update this part of the FAQ if there
are any issues forcing us to change this date. I will also sent another note to
this village pump once the deployment is finished.

What will happen once we have phase 2 enabled here? Once it is enabled in a few
days you will be able to make use of the structured data that is available on
Wikidata in your articles/infoboxes. It includes things like the symbol for a
chemical element, the ISBN for a book or the top level domain of a country.
(None of this will happen automatically. Someone will have to change the article
or infobox template for this to happen!)

We are working on expanding the parser function so you can for example use
{{#property:chief executive officer}} instead of {{#property:p169}}. The
complete plan for this is here.

Where can I find more information and ask questions? We have collected the main
questions in an FAQ for this deployment. Please ask questions you might have on
the FAQ’s discussion page.

I want to be kept up to date about Wikidata To stay up-to-date on everything
happening around Wikidata please subscribe to the newsletter that is delivered
weekly to subscribed user’s talk pages.

(Please consider translating this message for the benefit of your fellow
Wikimedians. Please also consider translating the proposal.)

Read this message in English / Lleer esti mensaxe n'asturianu / বাংলায় এই
বার্তাটি পড়ুন / Llegiu aquest missatge en català / Læs denne besked på dansk /
Lies diese Nachricht auf Deutsch / Leś cal mesag' chè in Emiliàn / Leer este
mensaje en español / Lue tämä viesti suomeksi / Lire ce message en français /
Ler esta mensaxe en galego / हिन्दी / Pročitajte ovu poruku na hrvatskom / Baca
pesan ini dalam Bahasa Indonesia / Leggi questo messaggio in italiano / ಈ
ಸಂದೇಶವನ್ನು ಕನ್ನಡದಲ್ಲಿ ಓದಿ / Aqra dan il-messaġġ bil-Malti / norsk (bokmål) /
Lees dit bericht in het Nederlands / Przeczytaj tę wiadomość po polsku / Citiți
acest mesaj în română / Прочитать это сообщение на русском / Farriintaan ku aqri
Af-Soomaali / Pročitaj ovu poruku na srpskom (Прочитај ову поруку на српском) /
อ่านข้อความนี้ในภาษาไทย / Прочитати це повідомлення українською мовою / Đọc
thông báo bằng tiếng Việt / 使用中文阅读本信息。

There is a new request for comment on Meta-Wiki concerning the removal of
administrative rights from long-term inactive Wikimedians. Generally, this
proposal from stewards would apply to wikis without an administrators' review
process.

We are also compiling a list of projects with procedures for removing inactive
administrators on the talk page of the request for comment. Feel free to add
your project(s) to the list if you have a policy on administrator inactivity.

Thanks, Billinghurst (thanks to all the translators!) ٠٤:٥٦, ٢٤ اپریٖل ٢٠١٣
(UTC)

Sorry for writing in English. I hope someone can translate this. If you
understand German better than English you can have a look at the announcement on
de:Wikipedia:Kurier.

A while ago the first phase of Wikidata was enabled on this Wikipedia. This
means you are getting the language links in each article from Wikidata. We have
now enabled the second phase of Wikidata (infoboxes) here. We have already done
this on the [first 11 Wikipedias] (it, he, hu, ru, tr, uk, uz, hr, bs, sr, sh) a
month ago and two days ago on the English Wikipedia. Today all the remaining
Wikipedias followed.

What does having phase 2 enabled here mean? You are now able to make use of the
structured data that is available on Wikidata in your articles/infoboxes. It
includes things like the symbol for a chemical element, the ISBN for a book or
the top level domain of a country. (None of this will happen automatically.
Someone will have to change the article or infobox template for this to happen!)
The current state is just the beginning though. It will be extended based on
feedback we get from you now.

We are working on expanding the parser function so you can for example use
{{#property:headquarter location}} instead of {{#property:p159}}. The complete
plan for this is here.

Where can I test this? You can test it on test2 if you don't want to do it in an
article here.

Where can I find more information and ask questions? We have collected the main
questions in an FAQ for this deployment. Please ask questions you might have on
the FAQ’s discussion page.

I want to be kept up to date about Wikidata To stay up-to-date on everything
happening around Wikidata please subscribe to the newsletter that is delivered
weekly to subscribed user’s talk pages.

We are excited about taking yet another step towards allowing all Wikipedias
share structured data and collect and curate it together. --Lydia Pintscher
١٩:١١, ٢٤ اپریٖل ٢٠١٣ (UTC)

Hi, apologies for posting this in English, but I wanted to alert your community
to a discussion on Meta about potential changes to the Wikimedia Trademark
Policy. Please translate this statement if you can. We hope that you will all
participate in the discussion; we also welcome translations of the legal team’s
statement into as many languages as possible and encourage you to voice your
thoughts there. Please see the Trademark practices discussion (on Meta-Wiki) for
more information. Thank you! --Mdennis (WMF) (talk)

My apologies for the incorrect link: You can sign up for Cochrane Collaboration
accounts at the COCHRANE sign-up page. Cheers, Ocaasi ٢١:٤٤, ١٦ جوٗن ٢٠١٣ (UTC)

Hello, Sorry for English but It's very important for bot operators so I hope
someone translates this. Pywikipedia is migrating to Git so after July 26, SVN
checkouts won't be updated If you're using Pywikipedia you have to switch to
git, otherwise you will use out-dated framework and your bot might not work
properly. There is a manual for doing that and a blog post explaining about this
change in non-technical language. If you have question feel free to ask in
mw:Manual talk:Pywikipediabot/Gerrit, mailing list, or in the IRC channel. Best
Amir (via Global message delivery). ١٣:٢٧, ٢٣ July ٢٠١٣ (UTC)

The Wikimedia Foundation will soon turn on VisualEditor for all users, all the
time on your Wikipedia. Right now your Wikipedia does not have any local
documents on VisualEditor, and we hope that your community can change that. To
find out about how you can help with translations visit the TranslationCentral
for VisualEditor and read the easy instructions on bringing information to your
Wikipedia. The User Guide and the FAQ are very important to have in your
language.

We want to find out as much as we can from you about VisualEditor and how it
helps your Wikipedia, and having local pages is a great way to start. We also
encourage you to leave feedback on Mediawiki where the community can offer
ideas, opinions, and point out bugs that may still exist in the software that
need to be reported to Bugzilla. If you are able to speak for the concerns of
others in English on MediaWiki or locally I encourage you to help your community
to be represented in this process.

If you can help translate the user interface for VisualEditor to your language,
you can help with that as well. Translatewiki has open tasks for translating
VisualEditor. A direct link to translate the user interface is here. You can see
how we are doing with those translations here. You need an account on
Translatewiki to translate. This account is free and easy to create.

If we can help your community in any way with this process, please let me know
and I will do my best to assist your Wikipedia with this |exciting development.
You can contact me on my meta talk page or by email. You can also contact
Patrick Earley for help with translations and documents on Mediawiki. We look
forward to working with you to bring the VisualEditor experience to your
Wikipedia! Keegan (WMF) (talk) ١٩:٠٦, ٣٠ July ٢٠١٣ (UTC)

Greetings. Starting on August 21 (tomorrow), all users with an account will be
using HTTPS to access Wikimedia sites. HTTPS brings better security and improves
your privacy. More information is available at m:HTTPS.

If HTTPS causes problems for you, tell us on bugzilla, on IRC (in the
#wikimedia-operations channel) or on meta. If you can't use the other methods,
you can also send an e-mail to https@wikimedia.org.

Greg Grossmeier (via the Global message delivery system). ١٩:٢٠, ٢٠ اَگست ٢٠١٣
(UTC) (wrong page? You can fix it.)

CIS-A2K is organising a 4 day Train the Trainer (TTT) program in Bangalore
during first week of October 2013. The idea of the program is to build capacity
and enable community members to conduct outreach sessions independently or with
minimal support to introduce Wikipedia to prospective editors in their
respective Indian languages.

CIS-A2K is calling for applicants for it's Train the Trainer Program. If you'd
like to be part of this program please make sure that you meet the selection
criterion and submit Train the Trainer Program Application From by 13th
September, 2013.

To know more about the program, rationale, overview, timeline etc. please visit
the Meta page.

Notifications will inform users about new activity that affects them on this
wiki in a unified way: for example, this new tool will let you know when you
have new talk page messages, edit reverts, mentions or links -- and is designed
to augment (rather than replace) the watchlist. The Wikimedia Foundation's
editor engagement team developed this tool (code-named 'Echo') earlier this
year, to help users contribute more productively to MediaWiki projects.

We're now getting ready to bring Notifications to almost all other Wikimedia
sites, and are aiming for a 22 October deployment, as outlined in this release
plan. It is important that notifications is translated for all of the languages
we serve.

Please let us know if you have any questions, suggestions or comments about this
new tool. For more information, visit this project hub and this help page.
Keegan (WMF) (talk) ١٨:٥١, ٤ October ٢٠١٣ (UTC)

Greetings! As many of you know that the Wikimedia Foundation approved a 22 month
grant to the CIS-A2K. The aim of the grant is to support the growth of Wikimedia
movement in India. Please find the Grant Report for the first 10 months period
here. CIS-A2K will be happy to receive your feedback. Please let us know if you
have any suggestions, questions and concerns about the report and our work. We
would be glad to have this feedback here. We are thankful to the Wikimedia
community in India, Wikimedia India Chapter and the Wikimedia Foundation for
actively engaging with our work. We will continue to work upon our deficiencies,
failures and successes. Thanks! --Hindustanilanguage (talk) ٠٧:٤٣, ٦ نَوَمبَر
٢٠١٣ (UTC)

I apologize for this message being only in English. Please translate it if
needed to help your community.

The Wikimedia Foundation's multimedia team seeks community guidance on a
proposal to support the MP4 video format. This digital video standard is used
widely around the world to record, edit and watch videos on mobile phones,
desktop computers and home video devices. It is also known as H.264/MPEG-4 or
AVC.

You are also welcome to join tomorrow's Office hours chat on IRC, this Thursday,
January 16, at 19:00 UTC, if you would like to discuss this project with our
team and other community members.

We look forward to a constructive discussion with you, so we can make a more
informed decision together on this important topic. Keegan (WMF) (talk) ٠٦:٤٧,
١٦ جنوری ٢٠١٤ (UTC)

However, you can enable it as an opt-in option in your User preferences (Please
select the user checkbox before "Enable the Universal Language Selector" as
shown in the picture above). Hindustanilanguage (talk) ١٠:١٣, ٢٢ جنوری ٢٠١٤
(UTC).

Pranayraj1985 (talk) ١٤:٠٥, ٤ فرؤری ٢٠١٤ (UTC) Secretary, Tewiki 10th Organizing
Committee(Sorry for writing in English)

Hello. A new policy regarding the removal of "advanced rights" (administrator,
bureaucrat, etc) was recently adopted by global community consensus (your
community received a notice about the discussion). According to this policy, the
stewards are reviewing administrators' activity on smaller wikis. To the best of
our knowledge, your wiki does not have a formal process for removing "advanced
rights" from inactive accounts. This means that the stewards will take care of
this according to the new admin activity review here.

However, if you as a community would like to create your own activity review
process superseding the global one, want to make another decision about these
inactive rights holders, or already have a policy that we missed, then please
notify the stewards on Meta-Wiki so that we know not to proceed with the rights
review on your wiki. Thanks, Rschen7754 ١٨:٤٣, ٢٤ جوٗن ٢٠١٤ (UTC)

Greetings! The Individual Engagement Grants program is accepting proposals for
funding new experiments from September 1st to 30th. Your idea could improve
Wikimedia projects with a new tool or gadget, a better process to support
community-building on your wiki, research on an important issue, or something
else we haven't thought of yet. Whether you need $200 or $30,000 USD, Individual
Engagement Grants can cover your own project development time in addition to
hiring others to help you.

Dear Wikipedians, CIS-A2K is seeking applications for the post of Programme
Officer (Institutional Partnerships). The position will be based in its
Bangalore office. Programme Officer will collaboratively work with the A2K Team
and would report to the Programme Director, Interested applicants are encouraged
to deeply engage with the CIS-A2K Work Plan before making the application. The
last date of submitting applications is November 14, 2014. You can also find the
job posting on our website
(http://cis-india.org/jobs/programme-officer-institutional-partnership). Thank
you రహ్మానుద్దీన్ (talk) Program officer, CIS-A2K

Apologies for posting this in English. If any friends could translate this in
Kashmiri please help in translating.

As most of you are aware, the Centre for Internet and Society's Access To
Knowledge program (CIS-A2K) conducted the first Wikipedia Train-the-Trainer
(TTT) programme in 2013 with an aim to support and groom leadership skills in
the community members. We are extremely thankful to all the senior Wikimedians
who acted as Resource Persons for the 2013 event. Achal, Arjuna, Hari, Shymal,
Tinu and Viswa! Without your help we could not have conducted it so
successfully.

This message is to let you all know that we have scheduled to conduct the second
iteration of this program at the end of February 2015. We are inviting
applications from interested Indian Wikimedians. Please see this page on Meta
for more details.

Some important dates: January 27, 2015 - Last date for registration. January 30,
2015 - Confirmation of selected participants February 26 to March 1, 2015 -
TTT-2015 workshop

We are working on the schedule and other details. You are welcome to leave your
suggestions and inputs here. Please write to us at tanveerفرما:@cis-india.org
and vishnuفرما:@cis-india.org if you have any further queries.

Best, --Psubhashish (talk) ٠٣:٢٣, ١٦ جنوری ٢٠١٥ (UTC) Accesss To Knowledge
(CIS-A2K), Centre for Internet and Society

(Sorry for the English - please translate this message!) MediaWiki message
delivery (talk) ٢٠:٠١, ٤ مارچ ٢٠١٥ (UTC)

Hello, I made a proposal on Meta to change the rules for the steward
confirmations. Currently consensus to remove is required for a steward to lose
his status, however I think it's fairer to the community if every steward needed
the consensus to keep. As this is an issue that affects all WMF wikis, I'm
sending this notification to let people know & be able to participate. Best
regards, --MF-W ١٦:١٣, ١٠ اپریٖل ٢٠١٥ (UTC)

This is a message from the 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee.
Translations are available.

I am pleased to announce that nominations are now being accepted for the 2015
Wikimedia Foundation Elections. This year the Board and the FDC Staff are
looking for a diverse set of candidates from regions and projects that are
traditionally under-represented on the board and in the movement as well as
candidates with experience in technology, product or finance. To this end they
have published letters describing what they think is needed and, recognizing
that those who know the community the best are the community themselves, the
election committee is accepting nominations for community members you think
should run and will reach out to those nominated to provide them with
information about the job and the election process.

Board of Trustees The Board of Trustees is the decision-making body that is
ultimately responsible for the long term sustainability of the Foundation, so we
value wide input into its selection. There are three positions being filled.
More information about this role can be found at the board elections page.

Funds Dissemination Committee (FDC) The Funds Dissemination Committee (FDC)
makes recommendations about how to allocate Wikimedia movement funds to eligible
entities. There are five positions being filled. More information about this
role can be found at the FDC elections page.

Funds Dissemination Committee (FDC) Ombud The FDC Ombud receives complaints and
feedback about the FDC process, investigates complaints at the request of the
Board of Trustees, and summarizes the investigations and feedback for the Board
of Trustees on an annual basis. One position is being filled. More information
about this role can be found at the FDC Ombudsperson elections page.

The candidacy submission phase lasts from 00:00 UTC April 20 to 23:59 UTC May 5
for the Board and from 00:00 UTCApril 20 to 23:59 UTC April 30 for the FDC and
FDC Ombudsperson. This year, we are accepting both self-nominations and
nominations of others. More information on this election and the nomination
process can be found on the 2015 Wikimedia elections page on Meta-Wiki.

On behalf of the Elections Committee, -Gregory Varnum (User:Varnent)
Coordinator, 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee

Posted by the MediaWiki message delivery on behalf of the 2015 Wikimedia
Foundation Elections Committee, 05:03, 21 April 2015 (UTC) • Translate • Get
help

This is a message from the 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee.
Translations are available.

Voting has begun for eligible voters in the 2015 elections for the Funds
Dissemination Committee (FDC) and FDC Ombudsperson. Questions and discussion
with the candidates for the Funds Dissemination Committee (FDC) and FDC
Ombudsperson will continue during the voting. Nominations for the Board of
Trustees will be accepted until 23:59 UTC May 5.

The Funds Dissemination Committee (FDC) makes recommendations about how to
allocate Wikimedia movement funds to eligible entities. There are five positions
on the committee being filled.

The FDC Ombudsperson receives complaints and feedback about the FDC process,
investigates complaints at the request of the Board of Trustees, and summarizes
the investigations and feedback for the Board of Trustees on an annual basis.
One position is being filled.

The voting phase lasts from 00:00 UTC May 3 to 23:59 UTC May 10. Click here to
vote. Questions and discussion with the candidates will continue during that
time. Click here to ask the FDC candidates a question. Click here to ask the FDC
Ombudsperson candidates a question. More information on the candidates and the
elections can be found on the 2015 FDC election page, the 2015 FDC Ombudsperson
election page, and the 2015 Board election page on Meta-Wiki.

On behalf of the Elections Committee, -Gregory Varnum (User:Varnent) Volunteer
Coordinator, 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee

Posted by the MediaWiki message delivery 03:45, 4 May 2015 (UTC) • Translate •
Get help

This is a message from the 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee.
Translations are available.

Voting has begun for eligible voters in the 2015 elections for the Wikimedia
Foundation Board of Trustees. Questions and discussion with the candidates for
the Board will continue during the voting.

The Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees is the ultimate governing authority
of the Wikimedia Foundation, a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization registered in
the United States. The Wikimedia Foundation manages many diverse projects such
as Wikipedia and Commons.

The voting phase lasts from 00:00 UTC May 17 to 23:59 UTC May 31. Click here to
vote. More information on the candidates and the elections can be found on the
2015 Board election page on Meta-Wiki.

On behalf of the Elections Committee, -Gregory Varnum (User:Varnent) Volunteer
Coordinator, 2015 Wikimedia Foundation Elections Committee

Posted by the MediaWiki message delivery 17:20, 17 May 2015 (UTC) • Translate •
Get help

As you people might be aware, Wikimania 2015 which is going to be held in Mexico
from July 14th to 19th. We, the Indian attendees at Wikimania, would like to
represent Wiki Indic Community booth in the same. We are creating Leaflets and
Posters for the community village at Wikimania 2015 to display in Wikimania
2015. We would like to invite you to gather the content and design(optional) for
posters (Sample) and leaflets (Sample) about the Indic language project of your
choice. We will take care of printing and displaying the posters/leaflets.

The maximum dimensions for your poster are 36 x 48 in (91.44 x 121.92 cm). We
suggest using the A0 paper size, which is 33.11 x 46.81 in (~84 x 118 cm). The
contents of the poster has to be in English. Posters and leaflets based on all
Indic language Wikimedia projects are welcome. The design should be a media file
uploaded to Wikimedia Commons. Please post the link to your content/design file
on http://wiki.wikimedia.in/Wikimania_2015/Booth/Posters_Leaflets before 25th of
June. In case if you face any issues please reachout to Dineshkumar Ponnusamy or
Netha Hussain.

For guidelines regarding creating posters, please have a look at this link :
https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Grants:Learning_patterns/Posters_that_work

We look forward to receiving your posters/leaflets and displaying them while at
Wikimania 2015! Note: This is not a competition or contest, we expect at most 1
poster and 1 leaflet from each Community.

My apologies for posting this message in English. Please help translate it if
you can.

The Wikimedia Foundation would like your feedback about how we can reimagine
Wikimedia Foundation grants, to better support people and ideas in your
Wikimedia project. Ways to participate:

(Opt-out Instructions) This message was sent by I JethroBT (WMF) through
MediaWiki message delivery. ٠٠:٥٤, ١٩ اَگست ٢٠١٥ (UTC)

Please help translate the statements on Meta Wiki. You can read more on the
Wikimedia blog.

Please help translate the statements on Meta Wiki. You can read more on the
Wikimedia blog.

My apologies for posting this message in English. Please help translate it if
you can.

Greetings! The Individual Engagement Grants program is accepting proposals until
September 29th to fund new tools, community-building processes, and other
experimental ideas that enhance the work of Wikimedia volunteers. Whether you
need a small or large amount of funds (up to $30,000 USD), Individual Engagement
Grants can support you and your team’s project development time in addition to
project expenses such as materials, travel, and rental space.

I JethroBT (WMF), Community Resources, Wikimedia Foundation. ٢٠:٥٢, ٤ سیٚپٹَمبَر
٢٠١٥ (UTC)

(Opt-out Instructions) This message was sent by I JethroBT (WMF) (talk) through
MediaWiki message delivery.

There is still one week left to submit Individual Engagement Grant (IEG)
proposals before the September 29th deadline. If you have ideas for new tools,
community-building processes, and other experimental projects that enhance the
work of Wikimedia volunteers, start your proposal today! Please encourage others
who have great ideas to apply as well. Support is available if you want help
turning your idea into a grant request.

Last month, we asked for community feedback on a proposal to change the
structure of WMF grant programs. Thanks to the 200+ people who participated! A
report on what we learned and changed based on this consultation is now
available.

Come read about the findings and next steps as WMF’s Community Resources team
begins to implement changes based on your feedback. Your questions and comments
are welcome on the outcomes discussion page.

Last month, we asked for community feedback on a proposal to change the
structure of WMF grant programs. Thanks to the 200+ people who participated! A
report on what we learned and changed based on this consultation is now
available.

Come read about the findings and next steps as WMF’s Community Resources team
begins to implement changes based on your feedback. Your questions and comments
are welcome on the outcomes discussion page.

The Community Advocacy team the Wikimedia Foundation has opened a consultation
on the topic of harassment on Meta. The consultation period is intended to run
for one month from today, November 16, and end on December 17. Please share your
thoughts there on harassment-related issues facing our communities and potential
solutions. (Note: this consultation is not intended to evaluate specific cases
of harassment, but rather to discuss the problem of harassment itself.)

This is a message regarding the proposed 2015 Free Bassel banner. Translations
are available.

This is to inform all Wikimedia contributors that a straw poll seeking your
involvement has just been started on Meta-Wiki.

As some of your might be aware, a small group of Wikimedia volunteers have
proposed a banner campaign informing Wikipedia readers about the urgent
situation of our fellow Wikipedian, open source software developer and Creative
Commons activist, Bassel Khartabil. An exemplary banner and an explanatory page
have now been prepared, and translated into about half a dozen languages by
volunteer translators.

We are seeking your involvement to decide if the global Wikimedia community
approves starting a banner campaign asking Wikipedia readers to call on the
Syrian government to release Bassel from prison. We understand that a campaign
like this would be unprecedented in Wikipedia's history, which is why we're
seeking the widest possible consensus among the community.

Given Bassel's urgent situation and the resulting tight schedule, we ask
everyone to get involved with the poll and the discussion to the widest possible
extent, and to promote it among your communities as soon as possible.

(Apologies for writing in English; please kindly translate this message into
your own language.)

Posted by the MediaWiki message delivery 21:47, 25 November 2015 (UTC) •
Translate • Get help

Patrick Earley (WMF) via MediaWiki message delivery (talk) ٠١:٤٩, ٥ جنوری ٢٠١٦
(UTC)

Your input is welcome (and greatly desired) at the Meta discussion, 2016
Strategy/Community consultation.

Apologies for English, where this is posted on a non-English project. We thought
it was more important to get the consultation translated as much as possible,
and good headway has been made there in some languages. There is still much to
do, however! We created m:2016 Strategy/Translations to try to help coordinate
what needs translation and what progress is being made. :)

I hope you'll join us! Maggie Dennis via MediaWiki message delivery (talk)
١٩:٠٦, ١٨ جنوری ٢٠١٦ (UTC)

Kashmiri is missing from this page:
https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/There_is_also_a_Wikipedia_in_your_language More
than 100 languages are now listed. Thank you, Varlaam (talk) ٠٥:٤٢, ٢٢ جنوری
٢٠١٦ (UTC)

کیا آپ اردو لکھنا اور بولنا دونون جانتے ہیں؟ میں نے کشمیری زبان میں ویکیپیڈیا
دیکھا، خوشی ہوئی کہ دائیں سے بائیں لکھی جانی والی مزید ایک زبان کا ویکی وجود میں
آ گيا۔ میں دائیں سے بائیں لکھی جانی والی (عربی رسم الخط) والی زبانوں کے ویکیوں
پر باقاعدہ جاتا رہتا ہوں، اور ممکن حد تک وہاں پر خامیوں کو ختم کرنی کی کوشش کرتا
ہوں۔ سندھی اور پنجابی ویکی پر میں نے کافی مدد کی ہے، اس کے علاوہ اردو ویکی
اقتباسات اور انکوبیٹر میں کھوار زبان کے ویکی پر بھی مدد کر رہا ہوں، اگر کوئی
تکنیکی مسئلہ یا سانچوں، ماڈیول، اسکرپٹ وغیرہ کا مسئلہ کسی وجہ سے حل نہ ہو رہا
ہو، تو میں کوشش کر سکتا ہوں، اسے درست کرنے کی۔ میرا موبائل وٹس ایپ نمبر
03325929584--Obaid Raza (talk) ١٩:٢٩, ٤ مارچ ٢٠١٦ (UTC)

Greetings! The Individual Engagement Grants (IEG) program is accepting proposals
until April 12th to fund new tools, research, outreach efforts, and other
experiments that enhance the work of Wikimedia volunteers. Whether you need a
small or large amount of funds (up to $30,000 USD), IEGs can support you and
your team’s project development time in addition to project expenses such as
materials, travel, and rental space.

Hello, after six weeks of community discussion about Wikipedia to the Moon,
there are now 10 different proposals for content for the mission. Starting
today, you can vote for them on Meta-Wiki, and decide what we will work on: a
Wikipedia canon, different lists, the Moon in 300 languages, an astronomy
editathon, featured articles, articles about technology, endangered things, or
DNA-related topics. You can even vote against community involvement. Voting is
open until 24 June. Sorry that this message is again in English only, but we are
using village pumps to reach as many communities as possible, so that everyone
knows they can vote. Best, Moon team at Wikimedia Deutschland ١٥:٣١, ١٠ جوٗن
٢٠١٦ (UTC)

Everyone is requested to participate in this short survey to help us learn more
about WikiConference India 2016 participants' capabilities, needs, interests and
expectations regarding conference programs.

How we’ll use this data: We will collect responses to assess whether and what
type of conference programs would be most beneficial for the Wikimedia community
in India. Individual responses or comments will not be made publicly available
unless in anonymized or aggregate form.

In legalese: Your privacy is important to us. As allowed by law, we will only
share your responses with WCI 2016 helping on this survey. We may, however,
publicly share anonymous statistics about the responses in aggregate form.
Wikimedia is a worldwide organization. By answering these questions, you permit
us to record and transfer your responses to the United States and other places
as may be necessary to carry out the objectives of this project. You also agree
to refrain from incorporating your personal information in response to a
question that doesn’t ask for it and to donate your responses to the public
domain. For terms and privacy considerations related to Google Forms, consult
the Privacy Policy (https://www.google.com/policies/privacy/) and Terms of Use
(http://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/terms/) of Google.

Survey link -
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1Tn5TCFE4DkrAhIVmXk_Hx--upllCRU5pQlz6G_7Qb5M/edi
t?ts=575ad1a7

I would like to have admin rights on this wiki. I will install some necessary
gadgets. --Satdeep Gill (talk) ١١:٤٥, ٢٢ اَگست ٢٠١٦ (UTC)

Greetings! The Project Grants program is currently accepting proposals for
funding. There is just over a week left to submit before the October 11
deadline. If you have ideas for software, offline outreach, research, online
community organizing, or other projects that enhance the work of Wikimedia
volunteers, start your proposal today! Please encourage others who have great
ideas to apply as well. Support is available if you want help turning your idea
into a grant request.

Hello! I'm writing from the Wikimedia Foundation to invite you to give your
feedback on a proposed move from CC BY-SA 3.0 to a CC BY-SA 4.0 license across
all Wikimedia projects. The consultation will run from October 5 to November 8,
and we hope to receive a wide range of viewpoints and opinions. Please, if you
are interested, take part in the discussion on Meta-Wiki.

Apologies that this message is only in English. This message can be read and
translated in more languages here. Joe Sutherland (talk) ٠١:٣٥, ٦ اکتوبر ٢٠١٦
(UTC)

I apologise that this message is in English.
⧼Centralnotice-shared-help-translate⧽

Select strong passwords – eight or more characters long, and containing letters,
numbers, and punctuation. Joe Sutherland (بَحَژ) / MediaWiki message delivery
(talk) ٢٣:٥٩, ١٣ نَوَمبَر ٢٠١٦ (UTC)

Please accept my apologies - that first line should read "Help with
translations!". Joe Sutherland (WMF) (talk) / MediaWiki message delivery (talk)
٠٠:١١, ١٤ نَوَمبَر ٢٠١٦ (UTC)

My temporary adminship on this wiki has expired. I would like to renew
it.--Satdeep Gill (talk) ١٧:٥٧, ١٢ ڈیٚسَمبَر ٢٠١٦ (UTC)

James Forrester (Product Manager, Editing department, Wikimedia Foundation)
--١٩:٣١, ١٤ ڈیٚسَمبَر ٢٠١٦ (UTC)



https://ks.wikipedia.org/wiki/%DA%A9%D9%88%D8%B1%D9%90%DB%8C%D8%A7%DA%86%D9%90_%D8%AA%D8%B1%D9%9B%DB%92_%D8%B1%D9%90%DB%8C%D8%A7%D8%B3%D8%AA%D9%8E%D9%86

kōriyā'aci tre bādaśāhata āsa gōguryō, baikjē ta silā, yimava 1nici sadī ī॰pū॰
ta 7mi sadī ī॰ man̄zabāga kōriyana pēninasūlā ta man̄cūriyāasa peṭha kabza ōsa
koramuta. tryana bādaśāhatana hanadi vakta brōṇṭha ta daurāna āsa bākaya
bādaśāhata ta kabŏly rayāsata ati, yimana man̄za gayā, ḍōṅgyē, ōkjēvō, buyēvō,
usāna, tāmanā, vagŏra ŏsy.

yi daura gava 57 īpū pyaṭha śurū yeli dakṣiṇa pūrvasa man̄za sārō bādaśāhatana
(pata vōnahasa silā) cīnī saltanatasa (hūṇa vanśa) niśa āzŏdī hŏsila kĕra. yālū
nadī (kōriyana zabāni man̄za amanōka nadī) handisa uttara ta dakṣiṇasa man̄za
gōguryō'asa mīja cīniyana niśa 37īpūasa man̄za āzŏdī. 18īpūasa man̄za ca̔ĕly za
gōguryō rājakumāra bādaśāha bananaki lālaca laḍāyi niśi dūra ta korukha
pēninasūlā kisa dakṣiṇa paścimasa man̄za (āzakaluka syōla) baikjē istāda, yemica
rāzadŏnī gvaḍa uṅgajina (āzakaluka gōṅgajū yā cōṅgajū) ŏsa ta pata sābī
(āzakaluka puyō) ŏsa. gayā bādaśāhata gayi baikjē niśi 1nici sadī ī॰ man̄za
judā. treyima sadī handisa śuru'asa man̄za hāna vanśaci samāpti pyaṭha vopadēyi
tre bādaśāhata. sārinaya bādaśāhatana ōsa kunuya tamadduna. kanphyūśiyasavāda
phĕhalyāva kōriyākisa thĕdisa samājasa man̄za 1nici sadī ī॰ pyaṭha. pata āva
amici jāyi pūra pŏṭhya baud'dha-dharma.

gōguryō, yusa trenavanī boḍa ōsa, tatha āsa za rāzadŏnī yima vāri-vāri āsa
rōzāna -- nāṅganāṅga (āzakaluka pyōṅgyāṅga ta kuṅga'i, yusa yālū dariyāvasa
pyaṭha ōsa. śuru'ātasa pan̄za yi cīnakisa sarahadasa pyaṭha akha riyāsata, pata
koruna vāra vāra man̄cūriyāuka boḍa bāra alāka kabzasa tala. ŏkhara calarŏvina
nāṅgāṅga pyaṭha cīnī 313sa man̄za. cīnī tamaddunuka asara rūda, yota tāma zana
372sa man̄za baud'dha-dharma āva sarakŏrī dharma mānana. 14mi sadī man̄za ōsa
baikjē vāryāha bajāha ta pēninasūlākisa n'yasapa hisasa pyaṭha (dakṣiṇī) ōsa
amyuka kabza.

503sa man̄za thovahŏsa silā nāva. vanāna chi zi silā ci bādaśāhati kora 4mi sadī
hanadisa goḍanikisa n'yaspa hisasa man̄za kayā yā gayā kisa sŏrisya alākasa
kabza. silā'asa ŏsa rāzadŏnī gumasāṅga (āzakaluka gyōṅgjū yā kyōṅgjū). 528sa
man̄za ban'yāva baud'dha-dharma sarakŏrī dharma.

cīnasa saty mīlitha zyūna silāki taṅga vanśana gōguryēva 668sa man̄za. baikjē
ōsukha 668sa man̄za brōṇṭhaya zyūnamuta, ta a‌̔ĕthy saty ca̔āva rĕlitha silāuka
daura ta "trena bādaśāhatana" sapuda vāra pŏṭhy anta.

"samaguka" yānī "tre bādaśāhata" nāva ōsa prān'yana kitābana samaguka sāgī ta
samaguka yusā man̄za istimāla karana.

This page is a Latin transliteration of
http://incubator.wikimedia.org/wiki/Wp/kas/%E0%A4%95%E0%A5%8B%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%BF%
E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%85%E0%A5%92%E0%A4%9A%E0%A4%BF_%E0%A4%A4%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B
0%E0%A5%86_%E0%A4%AC%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%A6%E0%A4%B6%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B9%E0%A4%A4%E0%A5
%92



https://ks.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%BE%D9%84%D9%88%DB%84%D9%85

پُلوۄم چھُہ ہندوستان کہِ کشیٖرِ ہُنٛد اَکھ ضِلہٕ یُس راز دٲنۍ سرینگر پٮ۪ٹھ ۴٠
کلومیٹر دور چھُہ۔ پُلوۄم چھُہ سٲرۍسی دُنیاہَس منٛز کۄنٛگہٕ کِس کاشتَس خٲطرٕ
مشہور۔ ۲٠٠۱ کہِ مردم شمٲری حساب چھہٕ اَمِچ کُل آبٲدی ۵.۶ لَچھ یِمَن منٛز ۳.۳
لَچھ مرد تہٕ ۲.۳ لَچھ ذَنہِ چھہٕ۔ ضِلَس چھہ زٕ بَڈھۍ کالچ(ترالہٕ تہٕ پُلوٲمِس
منٛز) تہٕ اَکھ یونیورسٹی (اسلامِک یونیورسٹی اونتۍپورہٕ)۔ دۄدٕ چہِ کثیر پیداوار
مۄکھہٕ چھُہ ضِلَس دۄدٕ کۄل تہِ ونان۔ یٮ۪تہِ چھُہ سالانہٕ ۱۱۸ میٹرِک ٹن کھۄتہٕ
ذیادٕ دۄدھ نیران۔ یہٕ چھُہ ریاستَس منٛز کۄنگ پٲدٕ کَرن وۄل کُنی ضِلہٕ۔ مہجور،
حبہ خاتون، لَلِتادِتیا چھہ اَمِچے مٮ۪ژِ ہِنٛد پٲداوار۔

پُلوۄم چھُہ 33.88N 74.92E پٮ۪ٹھ واقع۔ اَمٮُ۪ک اوسط تھزر چھُہ ۱۶۳٠ میٹر ۔ اَمیُک
کُل رۄقبہٕ چھُہ ۱۳۹۸ مۄبہٕ میٹر۔ اَمۍکٮ۪ن گامَن ہُنٛد تعداد چھُہ ۵۵۴۔ یہٕ چہُہ
سرینگر پٮ۪ٹھ ۴٠ کلومیٹر دور۔ یہٕ چہُہ ۴ قصبَن تہٕ ۶ پلاکَن منٛز تقسیم کرنہٕ
آمُت۔ اَمکۍ ژور قصبہٕ چھہ: ترال، پامپر، اوتنۍپور تہٕ پُلوۄم



